Mariupol continues to suffer assault: The mayor of Mariupol said that more than 600 people were injured in a Russian bombing that struck the makeshift hospital facility within the besieged Azovstal steel complex. A commander inside the plant told CNN that there was not much food and water left for the plant's defenders and that they had a limited amount of ammunition. We don't have the possibility to destroy the aircraft and vessels that are shelling us, Sviatoslav Palamar of the Azov Regiment said. Even so, he insisted: We do not consider giving up or the conditions of giving up. We only consider guarantees of leaving the territory of the plant. If there is no other choice left but giving up, we won't give up. Palamar stressed that the soldiers in the plant wanted civilians who were sheltering there to be evacuated. An operation to evacuate civilians from plant in Mariupol was planned for Friday, according to the president's office.

Kyiv tells citizens to minimize vehicle fuel usage: Authorities in Ukraine's capital have urged people not to use their cars to save fuel for the military. Mykola Povoroznyk, deputy head of Kyiv City State Administration, said authorities are keeping the needs of the Ukrainian military and defenders in mind. The authorities in the capital have urged citizens not to return yet because of the continuing danger of missile attacks. At one point about one-third of Kyiv's population was thought to have left. Russian troops advance: Russian forces “appear to be advancing” toward Sloviansk and Baranivka, a senior US defense official said Friday, adding that they are making “some incremental, uneven, slow advances to the southeast and southwest of Izium” in Ukraine. Meanwhile, a railway bridge across the Siverskyi Donets river was blown up on Friday, new video shows. CNN has geolocated and verified the authenticity of the video. The bridge was located along a highway between the Ukrainian cities of Sloviansk and Lyman. A satellite image from the European Space Agency's Sentinel-2 satellite shows the bridge intact on Thursday. Another journalist killed: Ukrainian journalist Vira Hyrych is the 23rd member of the media to be killed since the Russian invasion of Ukraine began on Feb. 24, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said in his nightly address on Friday. Hyrych died as a result of a missile attack on Kyiv’s Artem plant, according to a Kyiv police spokesperson. 54-year-old Vira Hyrych was identified in a rescue operation early Friday, after the Kyiv mayor initially reported no casualties. Six people have been hospitalized with injuries and carbon monoxide poisoning caused by the explosion and subsequent fire. The Russian Ministry of Defense confirmed the attack on Friday. Biden mourns American killed in Ukraine: US President Joe Biden expressed dismay Friday at the news that an American, Willy Joseph Cancel, was killed while fighting alongside Ukrainian forces. It is very sad. He left a little baby behind, Biden told reporters at the White House where he was hosting a meeting of federal inspectors general. Cancel was killed fighting alongside Ukrainian forces, members of Cancel's family confirmed to CNN. The 22-year-old was working with a private military contracting company when he was killed on April 25. The company sent him to Ukraine, and he was being paid while he was fighting there, Cancel's mother, Rebecca Cabrera, told CNN. White House press secretary Jen Psaki reiterated that the administration's advice has been that Americans should not travel to Ukraine for any reason.