There’s been heavy fighting in several directions around Kyiv Thursday, according to official Ukrainian accounts and social media videos geolocated by CNN.

Ukrainian forces appear to have retaken territory to the east of the capital, reversing previous Russian gains. Social media videos geolocated by CNN showed Ukrainian troops along with some captured Russian armor in the small settlement of Lukyanovka, some 35 miles (or 55 kilometers) east of the capital.

Russian forces moved into the district in the second week of March as they advanced from Sumy in the east, and the Ukrainian Defense Ministry reported civilian casualties as the area was evacuated.

On Thursday, social media video depicted the aftermath of heavy battles, with a Ukrainian soldier in Lukyanovka saying that “the operation was completed, with absolute success, we knocked out the enemy.”

The soldier added that three Russian tanks and nine infantry fighting vehicles were destroyed and that Ukrainian troops were moving to surround Russian units in the nearby village of Peremoha and other settlements in the region.

Remember: There’s no way to verify the soldier’s claims, but US officials reported earlier this week that Ukrainian forces were pushing back Russian units to the east of Kyiv. The Ukrainians appear to have advanced from the south.

To the north of Kyiv, Ukrainian officials reported heavy rocket attacks by Russian forces against the contested town of Irpin.

Drone footage geolocated by CNN shows widespread devastation, with fires raging among a jumble of abandoned vehicles.

The mayor of Irpin, Oleksandr Markushyn, told CNN Thursday that the town had come under heavy rocket fire. He said he had just left Irpin and one of his team had been killed.

“Now there is a big fight in Irpin between Ukrainian and Russian armies. It is very dangerous to be here.”

He said that 80% of Irpin is controlled by the Ukrainian army but the Russians were using GRAD rocket systems against the town.

The same assessment was given later by Vadym Denysenko, an adviser to the Interior Minister, who said combat continued in Irpin and the neighboring towns of Bucha and Hostomel, which have seen persistent and sometimes intense fighting since the first days of the invasion.


