Austrian-born Hitler wrote Mein Kampf (My Struggle in German) in prison after his failed Munich coup in 1923, known as the Beer Hall Putsch. The book, published two years later, outlined the Nazi vision of Aryan racial supremacy. A copy of Mein Kampf, the political manifesto by Nazi Party leader Adolf Hitler, has been discovered at an Azov base in Mariupol, a Sputnik correspondent reports. According to the correspondent, a Russian-language copy of the book was found at the barracks where the neo-Nazi battalion was stationed. Azov members have been widely accused of committing war crimes in Donbass, including kidnapping, torture and mass looting. The symbolism used by some of the groups directly involved in the conflict bears a strong resemblance to Nazi symbols. The New York Times previously referred to them as openly neo-Nazi in 2015, but suddenly changed its rhetoric this year (guess why). Mein Kampf, published in 1925, was where Hitler's ideology, which formed the basis for the atrocities and war crimes that later characterized his time in power, began to take form. The 1945-46 Nuremberg international trial charged the former leadership of Nazi Germany with a litany of serious crimes, including violation of international and bilateral agreements, conducting a global war of aggression, and crimes against humanity and peace. In 2010, Russia included Mein Kampf on a list of prohibited extremist materials. However, in Germany, the first critical edition of the book was published in 2016 upon the approval of German's central council of Jews. It became a bestseller the same year, with some 85,000 copies sold. US President Joe Biden said on Thursday that the United States will continue to provide military aid to Ukraine until Russia's special military operation in that country stops. As long as the assaults and atrocities continue, we're going to continue to supply military assistance, Biden said. The president also stressed that the US was not attacking Russia, despite continuing to supply Ukraine with weapons to defend itself. He also dismissed concerns that Moscow might consider these supplies as US intervention in the conflict, which it threatened to rapidly respond to. Despite the disturbing rhetoric coming out of Kremlin […] we're not attacking Russia. We're helping Ukraine defend itself against Russian aggression, Biden said. POTUS said he requested $33 billion in emergency supplemental funding from the US Congress to support Ukraine amid the ongoing special Russian military operation. The funding package would cover the next five months of the conflict in Ukraine, and includes over $20 billion in military and security assistance, $8.5 billion in economic assistance, $3 billion in humanitarian and food assistance, and $500 million in US food production assistance, according to the White House reports. I just signed a request to Congress for critical security, economic and humanitarian assistance to help Ukraine continue to counter Putin's aggression, and at a very pivotal moment, Biden said. Biden will also send proposals to Congress on Thursday to establish new authorities for the forfeiture of Russian property in the US and use the proceeds to support Ukraine, the White House announced on Thursday. This package of proposals will establish new authorities for the forfeiture of property linked to Russian kleptocracy, allow the government to use the proceeds to support Ukraine, and further strengthen related law enforcement tools, the statement said. It would also create a new criminal offense, making it unlawful for any person to knowingly or intentionally possess proceeds directly obtained from corrupt dealings with the Russian government, the White House added. Western Involvement in the Ukraine Conflict The Kremlin has repeatedly cautioned western countries against supplying weapons to Ukraine, warning that they might turn up on the black market across Europe — and that the shipments only prolong the Russian special military operation launched on February 24. Russian President Vladimir Putin, who ordered the operation following the request for assistance from Donetsk and Lugansk People's Republics (DPR and LPR), promised that Moscow would deliver a swift response if anyone intervenes in the Ukraine conflict and poses a strategic threat to Moscow. We have all the tools for this. The kind that no one else can boast of right now. And we won't brag. We will just use them if needed, he said. Putin accused the West of pushing Ukraine towards confrontation with Russia with no regard to the lives of its citizens. He stated that these countries used nationalist forces to turn Ukraine into an anti-Russia.
 After causing confusion about what many interpreted as a plan to send US troops to Ukraine, Joe Biden tried to clarify his remark on Monday but apparently messed it up even further by stating that the 5000-strong US 82nd Airborne Division, which was deployed in Poland in early February, is training Ukrainian troops. Poland, NATO and US troops all train and exercise with Ukrainian military and intelligence services as part of the long campaign since before 2014 to admit Ukraine into NATO, says retired US Air Force Lt. Col. Karen Kwiatkowski, a former analyst for the US Department of Defence. Biden probably repeated what he had been briefed prior to his visit to Poland. On Monday, Joe Biden was questioned by Fox News correspondent Peter Doocy about what the president meant by telling American troops stationed in Poland: You’re going to see when you’re there, and some of you have been there, you’re gonna see — you’re gonna see women, young people standing in the middle — in front of a damned tank just saying, ‘I’m not leaving, I’m holding my ground.' The remarks were perceived by some as revealing Washington's plans to put US boots in Ukraine. The White House hastily specified that this wasn't the case. However, while answering Doocy's question, the US president said: We were talking about helping train the troops in — that are — the Ukrainian troops that are in Poland. This clearly contradicted US National Security Adviser Jack Sullivan's statement that the US was not training Ukrainian soldiers. US Army soldiers representing units participating in the the Anaconda-16 military exercise, attend the opening ceremony, in Warsaw, Poland, Monday, June 6, 2016. - Sputnik International, 1920, 29.03.2022 General Tod Wolters, Commander of the United States European Command and NATO's Supreme Allied Commander Europe, asserted to the Senate Armed Services Committee on Tuesday that the US was not training Ukrainian troops in Poland. However, some US lawmakers alleged that Biden spilled the beans about a classified Pentagon mission. It certainly sounds like something the US would do, taking advantage of the open border between western Ukraine and Poland to not just deliver weapons to Ukrainian forces, but to train Ukrainians in the use of those weapons, says Dave Lindorff, investigative journalist, Editor of the online publication ThisCantBeHappening.net. Biden's words do not seem to be a mere gaffe, believes geopolitical analyst Tom Luongo. He cites the fact that the rhetoric of the Biden State Department and National Security Council has recently become very aggressive. Biden, even if he’s momentarily cogent, could easily just be relaying echoes of previous conversations, says Luongo. Situation in Ukraine 'Washington Not Interested in Diplomatic Resolution' The US president has recently made a series of bellicose gaffes, including calling the Russian president a war criminal and claiming that Vladimir Putin cannot remain in power. Moscow denounced Biden's words as highly inappropriate and reminded him that it's the Russian people who choose their president, not foreign leaders. Joe Biden has been remarkably frank in his language about war, conflict and regime change in Russia, and elsewhere, says Karen Kwiatkowski. The degree of panic seen among his foreign policy and security staff may indicate that he has actually blurted out something from Top Secret Pentagon or CIA presentations. Judging from the US commander-in-chief's rhetoric, Washington is seeking a peaceful solution to the Ukrainian crisis in words only, according to the observers. I don't think the US is interested in a diplomatic resolution, says Dave Lindorff. For the US, the longer the conflict goes on, the better. It gets back to the late Polish-American National Security advisor Zbignew Brzezinski who wanted to use the Mujahadeen to make Afghanistan into the Soviet Union's 'Vietnam' and to kill as many Russians as possible.' Same now in Ukraine. [Secretary of State Antony] Blinken is kind of a low-wattage reincarnation of Brzezinski. Meanwhile, Biden's gaffes are fraught with the risk of exacerbating Russo-American tensions: according to the New York Post, it is not clear whether Russia would view the US training Ukraine’s military as a[n]… escalation. One can only assume it makes [Biden] sound 'tough' to the American politicians and citizens who support the Ukrainian military. As a person who supports a ceasefire and peace talks, I find his comments disturbing, notes Ron Jacobs, US author and analyst. It can't be ruled out that the Biden administration and its security advisers are mulling over all options, including sending US troops to Ukraine, according to Kwiatkowski. For decades, the US government has proven to be very willing to send young men and women off to kill other young men and women, and destroy cultural, political and physical environments - if it can get away with it politically, she says. The fact that the US and Western pro-Ukraine propaganda campaigns have been so powerful, so well-funded, and so early in the game indicates to me that the US government would like, and is hoping for, an extended war in Eastern Europe. The Biden administration might send American soldiers to fight overseas under some proper pretext, believes Tom Luongo: So scan the British press carefully for signs of what type of false flag they and the US intelligence services will cook up to sell us into yet another disgusting and vile war, the geopolitical analyst remarks. On 23 March, the New York Times reported that the White House has quietly assembled a team of national security officials to consider various Ukraine crisis scenarios including a joint military response if Russia used unconventional weapons. At the soldier level, the idea of fighting a successful nuclear war has not gained the popularity it has back in the Pentagon E-Ring, says Kwiatkowski. I suspect, from the looks on the faces of US troops dining with Biden in Poland a few days ago, that they have not actually been consulted about either fighting the Russian Army, or being in the arena of a potential nuclear battlefield. The retired Pentagon analyst laments the fact that following the disastrous Afghanistan withdrawal, the US government and its cronies appear to be working frantically to create a new long, tragic, and costly war in Ukraine. Russia on 24 February launched a special operation in Donbass aimed at protecting Donetsk and Lugansk People's Republics (DPR and LPR), which were recognised as independent entities by Moscow on 21 February. The Western media called the operation an invasion they have long warned about. The Russia invasion narrative wasn't the West's prophecy but rather a cover-up for a new attempt to return the breakaway Donetsk and Lugansk republics by force to Ukraine, according to George Eliason, an American investigative journalist who lives and works in Donbass. Bringing back Donbass would have paved the way for Ukraine's NATO membership: in accordance with the alliance's rules, a country having territorial disputes cannot be admitted to the bloc. First of all, Zelensky ordered the attack during a speech a few weeks ago, Eliason says. He made it very clear Ukraine's buildup was for that purpose. By December 2021, the Kiev government had amassed up to 125,000 troops along the contact line with the Donbass republics. At the same time, OSCE reported more frequent use of heavy weapons, prohibited under the Minsk Agreements, by the Ukrainian Armed Forces against the breakaway regions. The Western smoke-and-mirrors media campaign speculating about Russia's imminent invasion began in spring 2021, according to the investigative journalist. The mainstream press claimed that Russia was about to invade Ukraine. This is a huge breach in what constitutes a fact in the media. Published satellite images of Russian army positions accompanying these news reports showed the Russian army on bases over a day's travel away. In real terms this translated into 160 miles to 460 miles from the border, says Eliason, stressing that the Russian army could hardly launch a surprise land attack from these positions.sian invasion narrative caught its second breath with the mainstream press and prominent social media influencers publishing maps and false flag scenarios of the supposed assault. Former US Ambassador to Russia Michael McFaul launched nothing short of a tweet storm claiming that Ukrainian civilians will fight to the bitter end against Russian occupiers. For his part, Hollywood star Sean Penn arrived in Ukraine to film a documentary about Russian aggression. It was a coordinated infowar operation aimed at presenting Russia's possible reaction to Ukraine's offensive against Donbass as a full-fledged invasion, according to Eliason. Ukrainian President Volodymur Zelensky was also pushing the Information Operation narrative worked out for him by US infowar consultants, says the investigative journalist. Invisible War in Donbass At the same time, the Western mainstream media have kept silence for years about the shelling of the Donetsk and Lugansk Republics by the Ukrainian government forces and neo-Nazi battalions. Just a limited number of independent American and European journalists and freelance photographers have been working in the Donbass region, chronicling the invisible war of the Ukrainian government against its own people. According to the UN, over 13,000 have been killed in the region since the Maidan coup d'etat of February 2014. The barrage has been a constant feature in both republics for the last eight years, says Eliason. The primary targets have always been civilian housing and infrastructure. Over the past several weeks the Ukrainian military had intensified bombardment of the Donbass region, prompting the leadership of the DPR and LPR to launch an evacuation of children and elderly people to Russia. However, Ukrainian spec ops groups have been targeting evacuees leaving to Russia with mines and shells, says Eliason. The US openly dismissed Russia's warnings about the ongoing genocide of Russian-speakers and crimes against humanity in Eastern Ukraine. For his part, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz claimed at the annual Munich Security Conference on 19 February that it is really ridiculous to say that there is something like genocide in Donbass. Coming this from the German chancellor is scandalous but expected, says Eliason. By turning a blind eye to crimes committed by Ukrainian military and neo-Nazi militias in Eastern Ukraine, the Scholz-led coalition is indirectly supporting what amounts to second generation 1930s-40s political Nazi thought in Ukraine, according to the investigative journalist. De-Nazification Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov stated on Thursday that Russia started a military operation to protect Donbass in order to clear the country of Nazis. Ideally, it is necessary to liberate Ukraine, clear it of Nazis, as well as pro-Nazi people and ideology, Peskov told reporters. In the wake of the 2014 Maidan coup, a number of corporate media sources questioned the role of Ukraine neo-Nazi groups in the nation's political life but very then it was largely scratched from the Western mainstream narrative. In May 2018, Stephen F. Cohen, an influential American historian on Russia, warned in his op-ed for The Nation that neo-fascists play an important official or tolerated role in the US-backed Ukraine. He bemoaned the fact that many Americans are unaware of 2 May 2014 pogrom in Odessa where roughly 50 people were burnt alive in the Trade Unions House by Ukrainian radical nationalists and neo-Nazis. The professor continued that the mainstream media has similarly overlooked the fact that the Azov Battalion, which is an official component of Kiev’s armed forces, has a pro-Nazi ideology. Back in 2017, the Hill quoted Azov's commander, Andriy Biletsky, as saying that the mission of Ukraine is to lead the White Races of the world in a final crusade for their survival … against the Semite-led Untermenschen. What's more, the rehabilitation of neo-Nazism in Ukraine has been tolerated by successive American administrations since the time of the 2005 Orange Revolution and continued to thrive, under George Bush, Barack Obama, and Donald Trump, according to Cohen. The administration of Joseph Biden, who used to be Obama's appointee in Ukraine, went even further, by providing tonnes of weapons and training to the Ukrainian military as the latter concentrated along the line of contact with Donbass. On 16 December 2021, the UN General Assembly discussed a resolution that called for combating the glorification of Nazism, neo-Nazism and other practices fuelling racism and xenophobia. The only two countries that voted against it were the US and Ukraine. The Russian foreign minister has called on all big five nuclear powers to commit to ruling out nuclear war. Russia is not threatening anyone with nuclear war, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov told Al Arabiya in an interview on Friday. According to him, it is the West, along with Ukraine, which flirts with the rhetoric of nuclear war. We never play with concepts this dangerous. Never. We must all be committed to the statements of the nuclear five - a nuclear war can never be triggered, Lavrov stressed. He noted that it was Russia that had repeatedly push for the adoption of statements on behalf of all nuclear countries confirming commitments to no first-use of nuclear weapons. While the Trump administration refused to accept such statements, they were adopted following the first meeting of Russian President Vladimir Putin and US President Joe Biden in Geneva. Lavrov went on to say that Moscow does not consider itself at war with NATO, since it would be a step that would increase the risks of what we just discussed [nuclear war]. Unfortunately, there is a feeling that NATO believes that it is at war with Russia. NATO, the US, European leaders, many of which, in particular in the UK, the US, Poland, France, Germany and, of course, the head of European diplomacy [Josep] Borrell directly say that [Russian President Vladimir] Putin must lose, Russia must be defeated. the minister explained. Lavrov also highlighted that Russia does not use foreign mercenaries, including those from Syria, in Ukraine. I can assure you that the Syrians have their own concerns, the minister told Al Arabiya. The foreign minister then turned to the activities of US biological laboratories in Ukraine, saying Moscow believes they must be investigated. He underlined that Russia wants clarity, and will insist on getting answers. He also delved into how the Western sanctions, imposed following the start of the Russian military operation in Ukraine, have impacted the food chains, effectively becoming one of the causes of global food crisis. For example, dozens of foreign ships are blocked in the Black and Azov Seas on the territory of Ukraine because they are under sanctions. We are ready to release them, but the Ukrainian government is not cooperating with us on this issue, Lavrov said. Commenting on the gas payments scheme proposed by Russia, the minister noted that the majority of Russia's partners have agreed to pay for gas in rubles. Under the new rules, Gazprombank will open special currency and ruble accounts for foreign buyers to pay for gas. The buyer will be able to transfer money to the currency account, with the bank selling it on the Moscow Exchange. Then it will transfer the rubles to the account of the gas buyer, who can then finalise the payment with the supplier — Gazprom. The main conclusion Russia has drawn, according to Lavrov, is that Moscow cannot rely on the West when it comes to strategic issues like food supplies, technology, the economy and others. And while it is possible that ties between Russia and the West will be renewed, Lavrov stressed that Russia has to be self-sufficient in key areas of the country's life. Russia launched a military operation in Ukraine in February after the newly recognised Donetsk and Lugansk People’s republics appealed for help to defend them against provocations from Ukrainian forces. Despite Moscow revealing the genocide committed by Kiev against the Donbass population, the West continues to inundate Ukraine with weapons. Ukrainian forces have continued to shell Donetsk and Lugansk People's republics (DPR and LPR), as Russia’s armed forces entered the second phase of their special military operation, whose goal is now to liberate Donbass. Russia launched a military operation on 24 February, aiming to stop the eight-year conflict in Donbass, which has claimed at least 13,000 lives. Russian President Vladimir Putin called Kiev's campaign in Donbass a genocide and stressed that Moscow's goals are the complete “de-Nazification” and demilitarisation of Ukraine. Following the Western press' claims that Russia's Ukraine operation has stalled and that Moscow may use chemical or bio weapons out of despair, US DoD sources told Newsweek and Reuters that neither assumption is right. Scott Ritter, former UN Weapons Inspector and WMD Whistleblower, has sat down with Sputnik to discuss the special operation. Sputnik: Speaking to Maverick Multimedia on 19 March, you said that Russia’s special operation in Ukraine is close to being over in Russia's favour and that Moscow's military op will later be studied by specialists. What's so special about Russia's operation, in your opinion? Scott Ritter: I think the thing that separates the Russian special operation in Ukraine, apart from other military operations of this nature, is the fact that Russia does not intend to occupy Ukraine. This is something that the Russian leadership has said from the very start. A military operation that is designed to occupy is a much more complicated operation requiring significantly more troops. It is about holding cities, holding roads, holding specific geographical areas. The Russian operation is focused on two non-geographical military focuses of efforts. The first is denazification, the elimination of the right-wing neo-Nazi military formations and the political parties that support them, and also demilitarization, the elimination of the NATO military infrastructure that had been installed in Ukraine. This kind of focus allows Russia to avoid the trap of being compelled to carry out operations to conquer territory, instead, to focus on a more specific task of eliminating military formations with the goal of eventually leaving Ukraine. Azov battalion soldiers take oath in Kiev before being sent to Donbass Sputnik: Why are the Western mainstream media continuing to claim that Russia's Ukraine operation has stalled? Does it mean that they do not understand Russia's strategy and objectives? Or does this narrative serve some other purposes? Scott Ritter: I think there are two reasons why the West is mischaracterising the Russian military operation in Ukraine. First is that the West is evaluating this as if it were Russia's intent to occupy Ukraine. From the very start, the fact that Russia is coming in with only 200,000 troops makes no military sense when we are speaking of a nation of 40 million people with a combined military capability of around 600,000 troops. Normally you want a 3:1 advantage when you are on the offensive, and Russia is coming in with a 1:3 military advantage. And so people are looking at the map, looking at the progress being made by the Russian forces and they characterize it as being stalled because the Russians aren't capturing Kiev, aren't capturing Kharkov, aren't conquering physical features on the ground. They're not understanding that the Russian objective isn't to conquer territory but to destroy military capability, which the Russians are doing quite well. The other aspect of the mischaracterisation is that there is an information warfare aspect to this war. The West is hopeful that they will be able to use the Russian operation in Ukraine as a vehicle to motivate domestic political unrest in Russia that will at a minimum compel the Russian leadership to withdraw from Ukraine with its mission unfinished, and at a maximum lead to the overthrow, the removal of the Russian president and the Russian government, sort of a colour revolution, if you'd like to say so. In order to do this, they are creating a picture of a military disaster in Ukraine on the part of the Russian military, and they're trying to project this narrative of a military disaster back into Russia in an effort to demoralise the Russian population and provide the impetus for massive popular demonstrations against the Russian government. Sputnik: Western pundits, politicians and experts are speculating about Russia's possible chemical attack in Ukraine. They have not presented evidence that Russia possesses such weapons, nor provided any proof that such plans exist. What could be the primary purpose of this narrative? Scott Ritter: The current narrative being put out by Western leaders and the Western media about the Russians preparing a chemical weapons attack in Ukraine is born of the standard reaction when one side is caught doing something that they shouldn't have been doing and they seek to project blame onto the other side. There is no doubt in my mind that the Russians are not preparing a chemical weapons attack. This makes no sense from both a military and political standpoint. Plus, it presumes the existence of a military-scale chemical warfare capability in Russia that Russia simply doesn't possess. But what has happened is that Russia has discovered biological research facilities inside Ukraine, operated by the United States Department of Defense, and they've discovered certain research activities which are difficult to explain by the United States that could have offensive biological warfare capacity. And the United States is embarrassed by this. So what the United States does is, rather than address the fact that it had an ongoing programme in Ukraine that has raised some questions, they deflect, saying that the reason why Russia is bringing this up is that Russia is preparing for a biological weapons attack. What's Behind Washington's Denial of Biowarfare Weapons Programme in Ukraine? So, it's deflecting the narrative back on to Russia. And in doing so, they expand the narrative based upon past allegations that Russia supported chemical weapons used by the Syrian government in Syria, that Russia used chemical agents against the Skripal family in the United Kingdom. That Russia used chemical agents against the political dissident Navalny in Russia. And therefore, because Russia is guilty of all three of these things, Russia is preparing to use chemical weapons in Ukraine. It's an absurdity. It's ridiculous, but it's part and parcel of the ongoing information warfare campaign being waged by the West against Russia. Sputnik: NATO has been increasing its military presence along its eastern borders since the beginning of the Russian special operation in Ukraine. What's behind this military build-up, in your opinion? Scott Ritter: The ongoing NATO build-up on its eastern flank, I believe, is an exercise in confidence-building on the part of NATO. We are talking about an organisation that has just gone through, in this past summer, a terribly demoralising withdrawal from Afghanistan. One that made it question its relationship with the premiere power in NATO, the United States. And question the ongoing viability of NATO as a military alliance. I mean what is the purpose of NATO? The Russian incursion into Ukraine has breathed new life into those who believe that there is an ongoing purpose to NATO. But it is one thing to say NATO is relevant, it is another thing to make NATO relevant. And one of the things we know about NATO in the past decade or so is that it is militarily impotent. It doesn't have viable military capacity. So what's going on right now is an effort by NATO to flex its muscles to convince itself that it has the ability to stand up to Russia. So, they are mobilising these forces in what I call a feel good operation. The forces are insufficient to meaningfully confront Russia, but they are sufficient to look good on paper and make NATO feel good about itself. The danger in this is if NATO is flexing in the mirror and gets too impressed with what they are seeing to believe that they have actual genuine military capacity, then they seek to use this. There are ongoing discussions in Brussels right now in the emergency summit that NATO has convened about the possibility of putting NATO's peacekeeping forces into western Ukraine. You know, this is insanity. Under any circumstances, NATO does not have the ability to do this and prevail. But again, they've assembled these forces, they're looking in the mirror, they think they like what they see and they think that there's real muscle there. And, who knows, they may be compelled to believe that they have more capability than they really do and try to project these forces in the west of Ukraine, in which case there will be, unfortunately, a military clash between NATO and Russia. Sputnik: What are the odds of NATO troops getting involved in the Ukraine conflict? Scott Ritter: If someone had asked me at the beginning of the Russian incursion into Ukraine what are the odds of NATO getting involved? I would say zero because NATO had made it clear that it was not going to get involved in any fight between Ukraine and Russia on Ukrainian territory. But as this conflict goes on, as millions and millions of Ukrainians seek refuge in NATO countries, we're now looking at an economic and humanitarian catastrophe for NATO. And there are now people talking about not just imposing a no-fly zone, but actually putting NATO peacekeepers on the ground in western Ukraine. So far, sanity has prevailed and the no-fly zone has been rejected. But I think the longer that this crisis goes on, the more refugees appear at the border, the more refugees that are being taken in by NATO nations, the more likely it is that somebody in NATO is going to think that putting so-called peacekeeping forces in western Ukraine is a good idea. If that happens, suddenly we go from zero chance of a conflict between NATO and Russia to a 100 percent chance of a conflict between NATO and Russia. Right now, I would say it's fifty-fifty. I don't think NATO is going to make the decision today to send peacekeepers in, but I do think this issue is being discussed and will be tabled for consideration at a later date. And that later date could come sooner rather than later if more and more refugees appear at the border between Ukraine and NATO nations like Romania, Hungary, and Poland. Russia has put its nuclear deterrence forces on high alert as the UK threatened Moscow with a conflict with NATO and the EU's announced provision of lethal weapons to Kiev, including fighter planes, howitzers and Stingers amid Moscow's special operation in Ukraine. President Putin's special military operation to defend the people of Donbass from an imminent general offensive by the neo-Nazi regime in Kiev not only is it fully justified in international law by Article 51 of the Charter of the United Nations, but it is fully consistent with the military praxis and doctrine of the legitimate self-defence of States in the face of an imminent threat emanating from a neighbouring state or enemy forces, says Heinz Dieterich, director of the Centre for Transition Sciences (CTS) at the Autonomous Metropolitan University in Mexico City, and coordinator at the World Advanced Research Project (WARP). The US and its NATO allies have been enlarging their military bloc towards Russia's borders for almost 30 years, despite Washington and other Western European states' commitment to the Soviet Union to not expand it either formally or informally to the East, according to the professor. These pledges were put on paper, as shows the latest revelation by German magazine Der Spiegel and the Washington-based National Security Archive's 2017 publication of declassified documents. In 1995, the US and NATO bombed Serbian forces in Bosnia and Herzegovina from bases in Italy and Germany and US warships in the Mediterranean, without any authorisation from the United Nations Security Council, Dieterich says, adding that it was a clear act of war of aggression and violation of international law. In 1999, Washington and its NATO allies carried out a new bombing campaign against Serbia, which resulted in the re-drawal of national boundaries in Europe and creation of the US protectorate in Kosovo. In following years NATO had made a qualitative leap towards the Russian borders absorbing former Warsaw Pact members and three former Soviet Republics, i.e. Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania. The war organisation, supposedly established for the defence of the North Atlantic (NATO), grew from its 12 founding members in 1949 to 30 as of today, five of whom share borders with Russia: Estonia, Latvia, Poland, Lithuania and Norway, flagrantly violating at every step the agreements contracted with Russia in 1990-91 and the elementary security interests of this world power, says Dieterich. In March 2004, seven members were admitted to NATO, including the Baltic States, while from late November 2004 to January 2005 the US-backed Orange Revolution was carried out in Ukraine by supporters of Victor Yushchenko, who proclaimed Ukraine's NATO membership a high priority and declared Nazi collaborationist Stepan Bandera a Hero of Ukraine. Yushchenko's successor Victor Yanukovich assumed office in 2010 only to be ousted in February 2014 by the US-backed opposition and neo-Nazi paramilitary groups. Since that time, Kiev has cracked down on pro-Russian opposition, carried out repeated attacks against the breakaway Donbass regions and stepped up military cooperation with NATO. Speaking at the Munich Security Conference in 2007, Russian President Vladimir Putin warned about the dangers of NATO's Eastern Eurasian expansionism. But he wasn't the only politician who raised the alarm about it, according to the academic. In a prophetic article in the New York Times in 1997, the most brilliant U.S. strategist of the 20th Century, George Kennan, warned that expansion into Russia 'would be the most fateful mistake of American policy in the entire post-Cold War era', says Dieterich. NATO's expansionist programme towards Russia, wrote the visionary diplomat, would force Moscow to accept it as a 'military fait accompli' finding it imperative to search elsewhere for 'guarantees of a secure and hopeful future for themselves'. In mid-December 2021, Russia sent draft security agreements to Washington and NATO which envisaged the alliance's non-expansion, Ukraine's non admission to the military bloc, non-deployment of offensive weapons systems near Russia's borders, and the return of the bloc's European capabilities and infrastructure to 1997 levels. Moscow warned the Western states that if its proposals were dismissed, Russia would resort to a military-technical option. However, Russia's core proposals were disregarded by the US, NATO and the EU. Russia's 'Strategic Depth' Vladimir Putin's reasoning could be described by the strategic depth concept, according to Dieterich. Strategic depth refers to the distances between the front lines or battle sectors and the country's industrial core areas, capital cities, or other key centres of population. In his annual press conference in December 2021, Russian President Vladimir Putin explained that if the US and NATO missile systems appear in Ukraine, their flight time to Moscow would amount to 7 - 8 minutes; it would take just 4 - 5 minutes for a hypersonic missile to reach Russia's capital from the Eastern European state. The US and its NATO allies have pinned Russia into a position from which it has nowhere to fall back to, Putin stressed. According to Dieterich, the reasons that forced Putin to carry out the special military operation in Ukraine include: · NATO's vow to admit Ukraine in the future; · Kiev's military aggression against Donbass and Lugansk after the 2014 Euromaidan colour counter-revolution; · the discrimination and repression of Russian-speakers in Ukraine and the systematic sabotage of the Minsk Agreements by Kiev; · the growing weight of neo-Nazi tendencies and forces and glorification of WWII Nazi collaborators in Ukraine; · the intense deployment of US-NATO weapons and trainers in Ukraine. These factors generated a strategic threat on Russia's doorstep, that no responsible Russian president could ignore, according to the professor. It affected a military concept of life and death for the defense of the nation: 'the strategic depth' of Russian space that had saved the country in the invasions of Napoleon and Hitler, he says. Single Integrated Operational Plan Despite the systematic campaign of lies by the Western mainstream media, the Ukraine crisis is just part of the US-NATO's broader hybrid wars against Russia and China, which have recently been named as Washington's major adversaries in the Pentagon and the transatlantic alliance's security doctrines. However, this confrontation started long ago, Dieterich notes. Back in 1961, President Eisenhower had defined the supreme objectives of US foreign policy in the Single Integrated Operational Plan (SIOP): a surprise nuclear attack on the urban centres and industrial targets of Russia and China. When Soviet Socialism imploded in 1991, Washington decided to use two major political stratagems to 'finish off' its potential global rivals Russia and China: first, to expand its NATO war organisation towards the east, as close as possible to Moscow, to dominate Russia militarily; second, to prevent the Russia-China strategic alliance from being reborn, because it would form an invincible regional power bloc. Vladimir Putin's special operation to demilitarise and de-nazify Ukraine and growing cooperation between Moscow and Beijing are absolutely necessary, justified and capable of aborting these subversive strategies of the West, the professor concludes. Any weapons coming to Ukraine from the West are legitimate targets for the Russian armed forces, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said. The top Russian diplomat also stated that Moscow knows the routes by which weapons are supplied to the Ukrainian side. On Thursday, the US House passed a bill to allow Biden to engage in lend-lease deals for military equipment with Ukraine and other Eastern European countries. The Biden administration has provided Ukraine with $3.4 billion in security assistance - including more than 5,500 Javelins - since Russia launched its military operation in Ukraine in late February, according to the Pentagon. Russia has repeatedly denounced the continuous flow of weapons to Ukraine from the West, saying that it adds fuel to the fire and derails the negotiation process. Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said last week that the ministry had issued a note to all states providing Ukraine with lethal arms. Russia launched a military operation with the stated goal of putting an end to war crimes committed by Ukrainian troops against civilians during an eight-year offensive against Donbass people. On Thursday, Russia began a special operation to demilitarise Ukraine, responding to calls from the Donetsk and Lugansk people's republics for help in countering the aggression of Ukrainian forces. RIA Novosti, Zvezda and TVC journalists came under fire from Ukrainian forces in the south of the DPR in the village of Pishchevik (about 20 kilometres from Mariupol); nobody was injured, a RIA Novosti correspondent reported. The fire raid occurred at 14:32. At least 10 missiles were fired. The journalists managed to leave the territory and get out of the impact zone. A Ukrainian UAV was spotted in the sky after Russian journalists were shelled in the DPR, the correspondent added. On 21 February, Russian President Vladimir Putin signed decrees recognizing the Donetsk and Lugansk People's Republics (DPR and LPR), which had declared their independence from Kiev back in 2014, and early on the morning of 24 February, Russia launched a military operation to demilitarise Ukraine. In a televised address to citizens, Vladimir Putin said that circumstances “require decisive and immediate action”, as the Donbass republics had asked for help. In turn, the Russian Defence Ministry said that the Russian Armed Forces hadn't launched any strikes on the cities of Ukraine: the military infrastructure was disabled by high-precision means. The civilian population was not in danger, the ministry added. Moscow has repeatedly said that it has no plans to occupy Ukrainian territory. At the same time, DPR and LPR forces launched a counteroffensive against the Ukrainian troops in Donbass. In the past weeks, the situation along the line of contact has significantly deteriorated as Ukrainian forces have intensified the shelling of Donbass. Moscow repeatedly rejected Kiev's past accusations of war crimes, including the claims of mass killings of civilians in Bucha. Russia, in turn, is collecting evidence of war crimes committed by the Ukrainian military, such as unprovoked killings of captured Russian servicemen. The Russian Defence Ministry has issued a warning to western countries that Ukraine is planning to stage a fake news report about the shelling of the city of Lisichansk that allegedly led to deaths of civilians, when in fact the city was accidently shelled by Ukrainian forces. We warn the so-called civilized West in advance that this and other similar bloody fakes, orchestrated by the Kiev authorities, about the alleged 'Russian atrocities' are planned to be widely spread in the media and across Internet in the near future, the ministry said. The ministry said that after the 57th motorized infantry brigade of the Armed Forces of Ukraine shelled Lisichansk, the bureau of information and psychological operations of the Ukrainian forces decided to invite the Ukrainian and western media to the site in an attempt to blame Russia for the strike. According to the defence ministry's information, the Armed Forces of Ukraine are moving damaged military vehicles and bodies of dead Ukrainian soldiers dressed in civilian clothing to the city's central market. Such actions of the Ukrainian authorities, once again, demonstrate their inhuman attitude towards the people of Ukraine and indicate the complete disregard for all norms of morality and international humanitarian law. Russia launched the special military operation in Ukraine on 24 February following the request for assistance from the DPR and LPR, which had been reporting intensified shelling from the Ukrainian side of the demilitarised zone. Russian President Vladimir Putin said that the goals of the special operation are to end the suffering of the people of Donbass, demilitarise and de-Nazify Ukraine. Earlier, the Russian Federal Security Service (FSB) said the Ukrainian military had installed about 420 mines at the entrance to the ports of Odessa, Ochakov, Chornomorsk and Yuzhnoe since the beginning of the Russian military operation in the country. Kiev is barring foreign ships blocked in Ukrainian ports from leaving, threatening to immediately sink them, Russian Defence Ministry spokesman Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov said. Volodymyr Zelensky's claims that Russia has blocked about 100 foreign ships in Ukrainian ports is a lie, Russian Defence Ministry spokesman Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov said, adding that the Kiev authorities have forcibly detained 68 ships from different countries in the ports of four cities. Every day, Russia opens a safe corridor for the exit of these vessels from the territorial waters of Ukraine to the south-west, but their crews told Russian military that the ships are banned from leaving the Ukrainian ports under the threat of immediate sinking, the Konashenkov added. The Ukrainian Navy placed 420 anchor mines in the Sea of Azov and the Black Sea from 25 February to 4 March, Igor Konashenkov said, denying claims by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky that Russia was allegedly mining the Black Sea. As a result of a storm in the Black Sea and due to unsatisfactory technical condition, cables with bottom anchors broke at about 10 Ukrainian mines. Since then, under the influence of wind and surface currents, Ukrainian mines have been drifting freely in the western part of the Black Sea in the southerly direction, Konashenkov said, noting that no one can know where the remaining Ukrainian mines are drifting today. On 24 February, Russia launched a special military operation in Ukraine after the breakaway republics of Donetsk and Lugansk appealed for help in defending themselves against Ukrainian provocations. In response to Russia’s operation, Western countries have rolled out a comprehensive sanctions campaign against Moscow. Russia announced the beginning of a special military operation in Ukraine on 24 February with the goal of defending the Donetsk and Lugansk people's republics from a genocide of the Russian-speaking population, targeted by Kiev. Prior to that, Moscow recognised the Donbass breakaways as independent republics. Ukrainian forces have mined most of Mariupol and are holding residents hostage, according to the Donetsk People’s Republic (DPR) militia spokesman Eduard Basurin. It is still premature to talk about the liberation of Mariupol, as retreating units of Ukraine’s forces have been mining the city and not allowing residents to leave, said Basurin. Thus, entering residential areas might entail human casualties, which we seek to avoid, he emphasized. According to him, the Ukrainian military has resorted to holding civilians hostage because they are afraid to answer for the crimes that they committed against the population not only of Donbass, but also of Ukraine. Therefore, it will be very difficult. It will be a negotiation process, we will convince them to lay down their arms. And the people who live there should not be held accountable for their crimes, Basurin added. When the DPR was proclaimed in 2014, Mariupol, with a population of over 450,000, was the second largest city in the republic after Donetsk. However, the Kiev government has been at war with breakaway forces in the regions of Donetsk and Lugansk since spring of that year, when the new authorities in the Ukrainian capital sent troops to try to crush the Donbass uprisings by force. Since then at least 13,000 people were killed in the conflict and over 33,000 people were wounded, with 2.5 million civilians forced to flee their homes. On 21 February, amid a Ukrainian military buildup near Donbass and reports of hundreds of violations of the ceasefire by OSCE observers, Russia recognised the Donbass breakaways as independent republics. Russia's Ambassador to the United Nations Vassily Nebenzia votes during a United Nations Security Council meeting, on a resolution regarding Russia's actions toward Ukraine, at the United Nations Headquarters in New York City, U.S., February 25, 2022. - Sputnik International, 1920, 28.02.2022 Situation in Ukraine On the night of 23 February, amid continued Ukrainian attacks, the states formally requested military assistance from Moscow, prompting Russian President Vladimir Putin to announce a special military operation in Ukraine to demilitarise and denazify the country. US activists are planning a rally to explain to Americans that the current crisis in Ukraine was caused by NATO’s expansion further eastward and the West's support of the 2014 coup in Kiev, Phil Wilayto, co-founder of the Virginia Defenders for Freedom, Justice & Equality, told Sputnik. There already have been protests in more than 70 cities in the US, including four in the Navy center of Norfolk in Virginia. We are now speaking with our allies in the region about holding a larger protest as soon as it can be organized, Wilayto said. He expressed the belief that NATO's expansion eastward and US support of the 2014 change of power in Ukraine were the two causes of the current crisis. These two factors - the steady eastward expansion of NATO to the very borders of Russia, and support for the 2014 coup, are what have led to, and are responsible for, the present crisis, he noted. Speaking of NATO's enlargement, Wilayto recalled that after the collapse of the Soviet Union, the alliance pledged not to move toward Russia, but did not fulfill the commitment. Two of the six countries bordering Russia - Latvia and Estonia - are now NATO members. Ukraine, with its 1,200-mile border with Russia, has stated in its constitution its desire to join NATO. Meanwhile, it has been acting as a NATO member in all but name, he said. Last Thursday, Russia launched a special military operation in Ukraine, responding to calls from the Russian-speaking republics of Donetsk and Lugansk for help in countering the aggression of Ukrainian forces, which they had been fighting since 2014. The Russian Defence Ministry said the special operation is targeting Ukrainian military infrastructure only and the civilian population is not in danger. Moscow says it has no plans to occupy Ukraine. The move has elicited condemnation from Western leaders and the start of still more sanctions. A video of the high-precision strike on a Ukrainian forces S-300PS anti-aircraft missile system has been released by Russia's Defence Ministry. The video shows the destroyed position of the S-300PS: several damaged and burned-out self-propelled firing systems of the S-300 missile system, including those with transport and launch containers of anti-aircraft missiles, which where scattered to the sides. The footage features a burned-out command post, a broken tower of the system for lifting the radar to the height, and burned-out transport-loading vehicles. On Wednesday, Russian Defence Ministry spokesman Igor Konashenkov said that 124 aircraft and 77 helicopters, as well as 321 drones, 214 anti-aircraft missile systems, 1,750 tanks and armoured vehicles have been destroyed since the launch of the Russian special military operation. On 24 February, Russia announced the start of a special military operation in Ukraine after the newly-recognised republics of Donetsk and Lugansk appealed for help in defending themselves against Ukrainian forces. Russian Su-25 attack aircraft have destroyed military warehouses of the Ukrainian forces overnight, the Russian defence ministry said on Thursday. The ministry has released footage of the aircraft destroying the Ukrainian military infrastructure. The crews of Su-25 attack aircraft of the Russian Aerospace Forces destroyed warehouses with weapons and ammunition, the ministry said in a statement. Russia launched a special military operation in Ukraine on 24 February in response to calls from the Donetsk and Lugansk people's republics for protection against intensifying attacks by Ukrainian troops. The Russian Defence Ministry said the special operation, which targets Ukrainian military infrastructure only, aims to demilitarize and denazify Ukraine, adding that the civilian population is not in danger. Moscow has said it has no plans to occupy Ukraine. Western nations have imposed numerous sanctions on Russia.