Dramatic satellite images released by Maxar Technologies on Monday evening showed a massive 40+ mile long convoy of Russian military vehicles snaking along roadways northwest of Kyiv. 

It’s easy to trace where those hundreds of tanks, towed artillery, armored and logistical vehicles came from. Just follow the roads.

In Ukraine, northwest of Kyiv, all roads lead to Belarus. The roadway and bridge at Chernobyl — the town, not the failed nuclear reactor — ends in Belarus. Every other major road northwest of the Ukrainian capital, Kyiv, ends in Belarus, which borders northern Ukraine.

Russian buildup of troops: For weeks prior to its invasion of Ukraine, Russia amassed its forces in Belarus.

Hundreds of Russian military vehicles, aircraft and helicopters were moved to the former Soviet state in order to participate in what the two allies described as joint exercises. But after the maneuvers ended, the Russian forces didn’t go home.

In fact, additional satellite imagery from Maxar showed that Russia continued to increase the amount of military vehicles, air power and weaponry in Belarus. From the city of Brest in the country's east, to Gomel in the west, Russian forces kept popping up at air bases, in towns and in even in fields on satellite images and social media.

Pontoon bridge: Satellite images even showed that Russia constructed a pontoon bridge across the Pripyat River in the greater Chernobyl exclusion zone, which spans Ukraine and Belarus. The day the invasion into Ukraine began, additional satellite images from Capella Space showed Russia began moving dozens of military vehicles across that bridge.

Military power: The sheer length of the convoy is massive and speaks to the amount of the military power the Russians have amassed to try and take Kyiv.

It also speaks to Belarus’ activity in supporting and carrying the invasion — and responsibility for it.

That military power could not have been amassed by the Russians without the permission, and assistance, of Belarus. A downed power line tower, burned-out cars and apartment complexes gutted by military strikes can be seen in new video from Mariupol, which was posted by the Ukrainian city's council on Thursday.

CNN has geolocated and verified the authenticity of the video.

The video starts with a car driving south down Krupina Street. This area of western Mariupol has seen intense fighting for weeks, and nearly every single building — including a number of hospitals — in the area has sustained significant damage.

This is how some roads in general look like, someone in the car is heard saying in the video as it drives through two arms of a toppled-over power line transmission tower. We have to pass through using such a miraculous method. The trees around them are charred, with most of their branches seen splintered around them on the ground.

The apartment complexes on the left are also charred. On a side road between two of the apartment buildings, the bombed-out remains of a city bus and bulldozer are seen.

A clear blue sky is seen through the apartment building-turned-debris pile, with only portions of the facades and balconies still standing in parts of the building.

Further down the street, the remains of a local gym is seen.  The leader of the Belarusian opposition called on the United States to enact sanctions on the government of Belarus that mirror those imposed on Moscow.

In meetings with the US State Department and members of Congress this week, Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya said she discussed both strengthening future sanctions and closing loopholes on existing ones.

She also said she presented the US government with evidence of Belarusian strongman leader Alexander Lukashenko’s involvement in the Russian war in Ukraine.

Speaking to reporters Friday, Tsikhanouskaya said sanctions must be the same on strength as those imposed on Russia but different in structure, and should target state banks and state enterprises.

The opposition leader said she spoke with officials in Washington, DC, about ways of making sanctions more effective, closing remaining loopholes, freezing Lukashenka’s assets and blocking the money given to him by the (International Monetary Fund).

Tsikhanouskaya said suggested the use of secondary sanctions to close such loopholes.

We see how Russia uses Belarus to circumvent their own sanctions, she said, citing the example of steel.

She said sanctions are hitting the Lukashenko regime, however, citing what she described as letters from the Minister of Foreign Affairs seeking rapprochement sent in recent weeks.

I hope that Lukashenka will not manage to fool democratic countries again, as he did many times before, she said. Tsikhanouskaya met with US Deputy Secretary of State Wendy Sherman – a meeting that was attended in part by US Secretary of State Antony Blinken – as well as Jim O’Brien, head of the Office of Sanctions Coordination at the US State Department.

Tsikhanouskaya told reporters she gave O’Brien documents with the evidence of Lukashenka’s involvement in the war against Ukraine, as well as the list of companies and countries that helped to circumvent the sanctions.

She said that includes massive evidence of launching missiles from our territory, movement of Russian equipment in the territory of Belarus.

It's inside information about some internal orders about deployment of different Russian military equipment in our territory, she continued. So people have been collecting this information for the full period of the war. They are well documented and we passed this evidence to the government.

Tsikhanouskaya said she does not believe that the Belarusian army participated in launching these missiles, and instead Lukashenko gave the land to Russian President Vladimir Putin to use as he wanted.

It's already World War. We are so afraid of World War the third but it's already going on, she said. It's war between democracy and autocracy. US President Joe Biden and European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said they are united in our condemnation of Russia’s unjustified and unprovoked war of aggression against Ukraine” in a joint statement from the two leaders Thursday evening.

We are united in our support of Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. And we are united in our resolve to defend our shared values, including democracy, respect for human rights, global peace and stability, and the rules-based international order,” the statement reads, before going on to list transatlantic efforts to support the Ukrainian people.” Among the efforts the leaders highlighted, Biden and von der Leyen said the United States and the European Union are supporting the work of war crimes documentation experts who are gathering evidence on the ground in Ukraine,” in addition to outlining their efforts on issues like food security and humanitarian relief. Addressing G7 countries via videoconference Thursday, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky told them that they could be a great group of peacekeepers” by stepping up sanctions and creating a new association called U-24.

Earlier on Thursday, Zelensky also addressed NATO leaders virtually.

We can make your G7 group not just a great seven, but a great group of peacekeepers, a great seven peacekeepers. What do we need? Ukraine is very specific in answering this question. Every week we must step up sanctions against Russian aggression until it ends and peace is restored,” Zelensky told the G7 countries. He added, Next, we need to create a new system of security guarantees for Ukraine and our region. Real guarantees effective guarantees that can stop any aggression within 24 hours. Within 24 hours, we have proposed an association, a U-24. Something that the world needs not just to prevent wars, but also to stop active hostilities that have already begun and also to provide support to those countries that suffer from natural disasters or need support during pandemics or which face migration or food crises."

Zelensky asked the leaders how many urgent summits would need to be held until the problems created by Russia can be solved.

In the recent years, Russia has managed to create so many crises and so much instability that it has become the main problem for the world. A problem that is only increasing and we can't even guess how many such urgent summits would have to be held before the problems created by Russia can be solved," Zelensky told the G7 meeting.

Ukraine's president warned G7 countries that Russia’s actions in Ukraine were leading to a global food crisis.

Russia has destroyed global security architecture and dealt a powerful blow to international relations. But this is only the beginning. This war can be followed by a global food crisis. The longer there is no peace on Ukrainian land, the less food the world market will receive from Ukraine and many countries in Asia, Africa and even Europe may suffer extreme problems with access to basic foods and prices for food. This will definitely result in political destabilization and maybe that was the purpose of the Russian leadership. I don't know,” Zelensky said.

But we must act immediately. We must immediately stop Russian troops and get them out of Ukraine. We need immediate peace before the world faces another level of problems. It is better to use sanctions against Russia now as much as possible to stop its military machine than later to deal with the consequences of a global food crisis,” the Ukrainian president added.

Zelensky called for a full embargo to trade” with Russia, and to prevent Russia from using the GPS system.

Unprecedented challenges require a full embargo to trade with Russia. Russia must be deprived of the opportunity to even use GPS in the war. It is important for this system not to help Russian missiles and bombs destroy peaceful cities,” Zelensky said.

Russian banks and mainly the Central Bank of Russia must be completely blocked from the global financial system. War criminals must be left without any money and their frozen assets must be turned also into reparations,” he told G7 countries.

This is in our interest, it is in your interests. It is in the interests of all democracies, because democracies must be able to defend themselves. Freedom must be armed. Life must triumph over death,” Zelensky said.

Ukraine’s president again accused Russia of deploying phosphorous munitions, certain usages of which are either banned or circumscribed under international law. CNN is not able to verify these claims. The US State Department also told CNN it was aware of the reports but said it was not in a position to confirm. Mariupol continues to suffer assault: The mayor of Mariupol said that more than 600 people were injured in a Russian bombing that struck the makeshift hospital facility within the besieged Azovstal steel complex. A commander inside the plant told CNN that there was not much food and water left for the plant's defenders and that they had a limited amount of ammunition. We don't have the possibility to destroy the aircraft and vessels that are shelling us, Sviatoslav Palamar of the Azov Regiment said. Even so, he insisted: We do not consider giving up or the conditions of giving up. We only consider guarantees of leaving the territory of the plant. If there is no other choice left but giving up, we won't give up. Palamar stressed that the soldiers in the plant wanted civilians who were sheltering there to be evacuated. An operation to evacuate civilians from plant in Mariupol was planned for Friday, according to the president's office.

Kyiv tells citizens to minimize vehicle fuel usage: Authorities in Ukraine's capital have urged people not to use their cars to save fuel for the military. Mykola Povoroznyk, deputy head of Kyiv City State Administration, said authorities are keeping the needs of the Ukrainian military and defenders in mind. The authorities in the capital have urged citizens not to return yet because of the continuing danger of missile attacks. At one point about one-third of Kyiv's population was thought to have left. Russian troops advance: Russian forces “appear to be advancing” toward Sloviansk and Baranivka, a senior US defense official said Friday, adding that they are making “some incremental, uneven, slow advances to the southeast and southwest of Izium” in Ukraine. Meanwhile, a railway bridge across the Siverskyi Donets river was blown up on Friday, new video shows. CNN has geolocated and verified the authenticity of the video. The bridge was located along a highway between the Ukrainian cities of Sloviansk and Lyman. A satellite image from the European Space Agency's Sentinel-2 satellite shows the bridge intact on Thursday. Another journalist killed: Ukrainian journalist Vira Hyrych is the 23rd member of the media to be killed since the Russian invasion of Ukraine began on Feb. 24, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said in his nightly address on Friday. Hyrych died as a result of a missile attack on Kyiv’s Artem plant, according to a Kyiv police spokesperson. 54-year-old Vira Hyrych was identified in a rescue operation early Friday, after the Kyiv mayor initially reported no casualties. Six people have been hospitalized with injuries and carbon monoxide poisoning caused by the explosion and subsequent fire. The Russian Ministry of Defense confirmed the attack on Friday. Biden mourns American killed in Ukraine: US President Joe Biden expressed dismay Friday at the news that an American, Willy Joseph Cancel, was killed while fighting alongside Ukrainian forces. It is very sad. He left a little baby behind, Biden told reporters at the White House where he was hosting a meeting of federal inspectors general. Cancel was killed fighting alongside Ukrainian forces, members of Cancel's family confirmed to CNN. The 22-year-old was working with a private military contracting company when he was killed on April 25. The company sent him to Ukraine, and he was being paid while he was fighting there, Cancel's mother, Rebecca Cabrera, told CNN. White House press secretary Jen Psaki reiterated that the administration's advice has been that Americans should not travel to Ukraine for any reason. Vitali Klitschko, mayor of Ukraine’s capital, Kyiv, told CNN's Anderson Cooper that he is proud of Ukrainian citizens for defending their country and sees the battle ahead as a fight for its future.

Klitschko said Kyiv is under a non-stop attack by Russian troops and what he called Russian aggression groups.

We listen to explosions every hour during last night, all last night, the last four days. People are very nervous, they spend a lot of time in bunkers, he said.

Calling Ukrainian soldiers heroes, Klitschko said he is proud of the country's army and civilians who have taken up arms to defend the capital.

So many thousands of civilians come and build civilian defenses. People take the weapons and are ready to defend our homes, defend our families, defend our future and our country. And I am very proud, he said. We are ready to fight and ready to die for our home country, for our families because it's our home. It's our future and somebody wants to come into our home and steal our future from us. Klitschko said he was not ready to answer how long Kyiv could hold out against the Russian invasion but added it could be a long time.

In a message to Russian President Vladimir Putin, the mayor said Ukraine used to be part of the Soviet Union and it doesn't want Russia back.

We see our future as a democratic, modern European country. That's it. No discussion. It's our goal. We're fighting for that. We're fighting for our country. We're fighting for our dream, he said.

Klitschko is a former heavyweight boxing champion known as “Dr. Ironfist” and has been mayor of Kyiv since 2014. Asked whether the Defense Department considers Russian President Vladimir Putin a rational actor, Pentagon press secretary John Kirby got emotional speaking about Putin’s depravity in Ukraine.

It’s difficult to look at some of the images and imagine that any well-thinking, serious, mature leader would do that. So I can’t talk to his psychology. But I think we can all speak to his depravity," said Kirby at a Pentagon news briefing before pausing for nearly 10 seconds. Pressed on the characterization by CNN’s Barbara Starr, Kirby called Putin’s justifications for the invasion BS, at one point pounding on the podium for emphasis.

It’s hard to square his ... BS that this is about Nazism in Ukraine, and it’s about protecting Russians in Ukraine, and it’s about defending Russian national interests, when none of them, none of them were threatened by Ukraine, said Kirby.

Kirby listed some of what he called unconscionable actions by Russian forces, including civilians being shot in the back of the head, hands tied behind their backs. Women, pregnant women being killed, hospitals being bombed.

Kirby subsequently apologized for what he said was injecting his personal perspective, and would not elaborate further on the US assessment of Putin’s mental state. Before the crack of dawn, just before explosions began in cities across Ukraine, Russian state television unexpectedly broadcast an address by Russian President Vladimir Putin.  

The two self-proclaimed people's republics of Donetsk and Luhansk, in the breakaway Ukrainian region of Donbas, which he had officially recognized as independent less than two days before, had turned to Russia with a request for help, he said. To answer that call he was launching a special military operation. Its purpose: to demilitarize and denazifiy Ukraine. 

Within minutes, Russian missiles began hitting targets in Ukraine. Our actions are self-defense against threats, he told his fellow Russians, claiming Moscow had no plans to occupy Ukraine. We do not plan to impose ourselves on anyone, he insisted.

Putin described the special military operation in limited terms, to protect people living in Donbas who, he claimed, had been subjected to genocide, a charge that Ukraine has strenuously denied. But in the next breath, he lashed out more broadly: NATO supports Ukrainian neo-Nazis ... our actions are self-defense against threats. 

Then, in an extraordinary passage, he spoke directly to members of Ukraine's military, at that very moment in the crosshairs of the Russian military. Addressing them as dear comrades, he told them they had taken an oath of allegiance to the Ukrainian people, and not to the anti-people junta that is robbing Ukraine and abuses those same people.

Don't follow its criminal orders! he demanded. I urge you to lay down your weapons and go home. 

As he has done so many times before, Putin claimed Russia had no choice but to defend itself. With a hard-edged tone in his voice, he seemed to threaten the US, Europe and NATO which, in just a few minutes, would witness his armed forces opening fire on Ukraine, something the Kremlin had consistently dismissed as western hysterics. 

Whoever tries to interfere with us, and even more so, to create threats for our country, for our people, should know that Russia's response will be immediate and will lead you to such consequences that you have never experienced in your history.

We are ready for any development of events. All necessary decisions in this regard have been made.

Putin, who for years had criticized the West for ignoring his complaints about NATO's expansion toward Russia's borders, was finally striking back with fury. I hope, he concluded his short address, that I have been heard. In the Ukrainian capital Kyiv, subway stations have become improvised bunkers. Witnesses in the city told CNN the stations are full of people carrying supplies, organized in groups.

The stations are full -- but not the trains themselves, which are still running smoothly.

Ukrainians flee Kyiv: Photos began emerging Thursday morning of heavy traffic in the city, with long lines of cars heading out of Kyiv.

While we hear those (air raid) sirens, you can imagine how panicked the people of this city are being shaken out of their beds at these thundering explosions that have been taking place all around us, said CNN's Matthew Chance in Kyiv earlier today.

All that traffic is heading in one direction ... driving as fast as they can to the west towards the safer areas, if you'd like, of the country, perhaps towards Poland, which is three or four or five hours drive from from here. You can see it's almost a constant stream of traffic the residents of this country moving out towards the west, the opposite direction of of Russia.

US President Joe Biden and his advisers are still in conversations about how to approach November's Group of 20 summit, whose hosts received confirmation Friday that Russian President Vladimir Putin plans to attend.

Biden has said Russia should be ejected from the G20. Senior members of his administration have walked out of G20 events where Russian delegates are present. And there were discussions with Indonesia, which is hosting the summit, about stepping up its condemnation of Russia.

But no decision on boycotting the leaders' summit, still six months away, has been made. Officials said there wouldn't likely be a decision in the near-term as they weigh the downsides of skipping the event and ceding the table to Russia and China.

The President has expressed publicly his opposition to President Putin attending the G20, press secretary Jen Psaki said Friday.

She said it was too early to say how the summit would look.

It is six months away. So we don't know how to predict, we can't predict at this point, what that will look like, she said, adding: We've conveyed our view that we don't think they should be a part of it publicly and privately as well.

The White House is realistic the G20 will not collectively remove Russia from its ranks, since the decision would likely require consensus and China has been clear it doesn't support such a move. That makes this a different scenario than when Russia was expelled from the G8 after its annexation of Crimea.

Psaki said the White House's understanding was that Indonesia invited Putin to attend prior to Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Yet in a statement, the country's President stressed unity among the member countries.

Indonesia wants to unite the G20. Don't let there be a split. Peace and stability are the keys to the recovery and development of the world economy, President Joko Widodo said in a statement from Indonesia's Cabinet on Friday, confirming Putin had accepted his invitation to attend. Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen. Mark Milley took part in a virtual meeting of NATO's Military Committee in Chiefs of Defence on Monday amid the Russian invasion of Ukraine, a readout from Joint Staff spokesperson Col. Dave Butler said.

The leaders discussed Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, which is undermining global security, the readout said. The United States’ commitment to defending NATO territory is ironclad and the United States will continue to bolster our posture to better defend our NATO Allies. The US has sent additional troops and military assets to NATO countries in the past few weeks as the situation in Ukraine has worsened.

The Secretary of Defense ordered the deployment of 7,000 US service members to Europe on Feb. 25, a senior defense official told reporters. There’s been heavy fighting in several directions around Kyiv Thursday, according to official Ukrainian accounts and social media videos geolocated by CNN.

Ukrainian forces appear to have retaken territory to the east of the capital, reversing previous Russian gains. Social media videos geolocated by CNN showed Ukrainian troops along with some captured Russian armor in the small settlement of Lukyanovka, some 35 miles (or 55 kilometers) east of the capital.

Russian forces moved into the district in the second week of March as they advanced from Sumy in the east, and the Ukrainian Defense Ministry reported civilian casualties as the area was evacuated.

On Thursday, social media video depicted the aftermath of heavy battles, with a Ukrainian soldier in Lukyanovka saying that “the operation was completed, with absolute success, we knocked out the enemy.”

The soldier added that three Russian tanks and nine infantry fighting vehicles were destroyed and that Ukrainian troops were moving to surround Russian units in the nearby village of Peremoha and other settlements in the region.

Remember: There’s no way to verify the soldier’s claims, but US officials reported earlier this week that Ukrainian forces were pushing back Russian units to the east of Kyiv. The Ukrainians appear to have advanced from the south.

To the north of Kyiv, Ukrainian officials reported heavy rocket attacks by Russian forces against the contested town of Irpin.

Drone footage geolocated by CNN shows widespread devastation, with fires raging among a jumble of abandoned vehicles.

The mayor of Irpin, Oleksandr Markushyn, told CNN Thursday that the town had come under heavy rocket fire. He said he had just left Irpin and one of his team had been killed.

“Now there is a big fight in Irpin between Ukrainian and Russian armies. It is very dangerous to be here.”

He said that 80% of Irpin is controlled by the Ukrainian army but the Russians were using GRAD rocket systems against the town.

The same assessment was given later by Vadym Denysenko, an adviser to the Interior Minister, who said combat continued in Irpin and the neighboring towns of Bucha and Hostomel, which have seen persistent and sometimes intense fighting since the first days of the invasion.


 Ukrainian armed forces on Friday have now identified a large Russian landing ship that they said they destroyed at the port of Berdiansk in southern Ukraine the day before.

The port, which had recently been occupied by Russian forces with several Russian warships in dock, was rocked by a series of heavy explosions soon after dawn on Thursday.

Social media videos showed fires raging at the dockside, with a series of secondary explosions reverberating across the city.

The Ukrainian armed forces on Friday named the ship as the Saratov. In earlier reporting, the ship was named as the Orsk.

A day before the ship's explosion, a lengthy news report on the Russian state-controlled international TV network, RT, had featured what they said was a Russian warship named Orsk which is the class of landing vessel as the Saratov — a class known to NATO as alligator.

The Russian Ministry of Defense has made no official comment about the explosion.

In a statement, the Ukrainian armed forces said: In the Azov operational zone, according to updated information, a large landing ship Saratov was destroyed during the attack on the occupied Berdiansk port. Large landing ships Caesar Kunikov and Novocherkassk were [also] damaged. Other losses of the enemy are being clarified. Several Russian ships had been unloading military equipment at Berdiansk in recent days, according to reports from the port by Russian media outlets.

The United States said that Ukraine likely did conduct a successful attack against Russian ships in Berdiansk, according to a defense official, though it is unclear what type of weapon or weapons were used in the attack. It echoes a similar statement from the British Ministry of Defence, which said that Ukrainian forces have attacked high value targets in Russian-occupied areas of Ukraine, including a landing ship and ammunition depots at Berdiansk.

Analysis of videos uploaded on Thursday showed that one Russian naval vessel left the port soon after the explosions.

RT is state-controlled Russian media and is considered a mouthpiece for the Kremlin. It has been under international sanctions since the beginning of the month. The White House is closely monitoring the Russian military convoy that, according to new satellite images released by Maxar, has reached the outskirts of Kyiv and appears to be more than 40 miles long.

Multiple officials told CNN they are not only concerned by the size of the convoy, but also by the increase in violence, civilian casualties and indiscriminate killings in recent days.

Officials who were surprised by the fierce Ukrainian resistance when Russia invaded now fear the situation is becoming “a lot more challenging” for them.

In recent days, US President Joe Biden instructed Secretary of State Antony Blinken to release up to $350 million in immediate support for Ukraine's defense, but officials have also acknowledged privately that getting new aid to Ukraine will be more difficult than it was previously when it could be flown directly to Kyiv. I was so scared, it was horror It had been weeks of relative quiet in Kyiv when a couple of bangs and a plume of black smoke quickly changed that, CNN correspondent Matt Rivers reported. Ukraine and Russia both confirmed cruise missiles were fired into a central district of Kyiv on Thursday evening, miles away from where the UN secretary general had wrapped up a meeting with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky. Rescuers worked through the night, Rivers reported, and in the morning, a clearer picture emerged of what happened. An apartment complex was shredded by shrapnel, leaving those in the neighborhood shaken. 'This wall saved my life,' she said. 'Or otherwise, it would've been the end. There was a fire. I could see everything was burning. I was so scared, it was horror, a resident of the destroyed apartment building said as Rivers translated her remarks. The woman told CNN she didn't die because she wasn't sitting near the window. Some of the residents, however, did not survive. A 54-year-old Ukrainian journalist was killed in the strike. Rivers reported that Russia's ministry of defense said they were aiming for a factory near the apartment complex which is one of Ukraine's top producers of air-to-air guided missiles as well as aircraft parts. The factory was damaged in the strike, but so is that apartment complex just behind me.  Yet another example of Russia targeting places that have supposed military relevance, but killing ordinary civilians in the process, Rivers reported from the site in Kyiv. The Ukrainian military has confirmed that its forces have won back control of several settlements to the north and east of Kharkiv, potentially making it more difficult for the Russians to launch missile and artillery attacks against the city.

Ruska Lozova — a village north of Kharkiv — returned to our control despite aggravation and losses, the military said Monday.

The military also said the village of Verkhnya Rohanka in the east of Kharkiv was back in Ukrainian hands, and that the operation had been led by Col. Gen. Oleksandr Syrsky, the commander of land forces.

In the past two weeks, Ukraine has reclaimed about a half dozen villages in the area, bringing its forces slightly closer to Russian supply lines that run from the border to Izium.

Ukrainian forces have pushed Russian forces 40 kilometers (24 miles) to the east of Kharkiv over the last 24 to 48 hours, a senior US defense official told reporters Monday.

The official called it part of an incredible effort from the Ukrainian forces.

It’s just another piece of the stiff Ukrainian resistance that they continue to demonstrate. And again to remind Kharkiv is important to the Russians because it sits at the very northwestern sort of lip or edge of that Donbas region, the official said.