The interview of Sunaura Taylor by Sara E. S. Orning takes us through the first months of the COVID-19 pandemic, the dissolution of networks of care, and the creation of new sustaining bonds. Together they foreground the questions, where are the new systems of support? And how are they working? Taylor has thought more deeply than almost anyone else in academic and activist worlds about the relationship among humanness, animality, and disability. The COVID-19 pandemic is the occasion in which she now rethinks what she has published in Beasts of Burden: Animal and Disability Liberation (2017), assisted by Orning whose own thoughtful reflections emerge in her capacious and incisive questions. The interview is itself a form of collaborative thinking as well as a form of intellectual care. The question, “how are you living?” precedes the question, “what are you thinking?” But the answer to the latter question returns us again to the conditions of life and the living. As the COVID-19 pandemic persists, it does not maintain a static form. As much as it lays bare inequalities, such as social and physical vulnerabilities, it also intensifies them for workers compelled to risk their lives in crammed and poorly ventilated factories in jobs with high levels of human contact that fail to protect against the virus. These jobs expose workers to precarity and illness in the service of capitalist production and profit. The networks of care that are relied upon are to some degree state sponsored. But more often they take the form of networks of social solidarity, mutual aid societies, extra-familial pods, and cross-regional exchanges on the knowledge and tactics of getting through, modes of support, that include sustaining social connectedness, however provisional. Care is not just what mothers do, or are supposed to do, and where there is care, it no longer simply indicates that the maternal is also in play. The problem is not just that some mothers don’t care, but rather that care is much broader than any maternal task. Only under conditions in which the gendered division of labor is intensified in closed heteronormative domestic units do mothers become the locus and source of care. And yet, when “radical care” becomes a principle of global solidarity, as it does in the recent collaborative work of Lynne Segal and Catherine Rottenberg in Care Manifesto, we are given the chance to understand new modes of kinship beyond heteronormative domesticity as well as the situation for careworkers—those who stack the shelves at grocery stores, deliver packages (especially medicine and food), work in health care, or drive the public transportation vehicles that remain the only option for many disabled people to move from place to place.1 As the discourse on “essential workers” ramps up, the stakes in defining whose work is “essential” have never been higher. Whose work will be deemed “inessential,” and just how close to “dispensable” will such a category make them? COVID-19 time is splintered time. This we learn from the interview and the myriad readings on which it draws. In the sometimes manic effort to restart the market economy, workers are dispatched, threatened with termination, and compelled to achieve greater productivity for the profit that drives the entire scene. But this forward drive comes at the cost of living creatures, both human and animal, as meatpacking industries deal death to animals and expose humans to the virus in ever greater numbers with impunity. Reopening the markets, and keeping the markets open, is claimed by Donald Trump, Jair Bolsonaro, and their allies as the way to reestablish the good and prosperous life for those who are accustomed to that as their right and privilege. This avid celebration of market life disavows the death drive central to the capitalist machine: the dispensability of workers and the spreading of both human and animal death, as exemplified by the Trumpian Defense Production Act that, Taylor points out, mandates at once the continued killing of animals and the sacrifice of human labor. As Orning tells us, “crip time” is precisely a protest against that form of normative and linear time bound up with capitalist production, one that insists upon “taking the time the body needs to live, create, work, and thrive.” In her response, Taylor relays her wish that “we could all pause, slow down, enter viral time, contemplate, care for each other, and reflect on what this whole situation says about our relationships to each other, and to other species and ecosystems.”3 The question of who is made more vulnerable under pandemic conditions brings us back to the kind of calculation that is made about whose lives are deemed dispensable and whose lives are treated as precious, as worthy of living on. The verdict of “dispensability” gathers workers, the disabled, and animals together in a class of beings whose lives are deemed appropriate for sacrifice, for the purposes of keeping the productive (market) and financial economy moving forward and upward. When the COVID-19 curve is relatively flat, or lower than what it previously was, we are asked to understand this as a great success, but what exactly is being communicated to us with such enthusiasm? Yes, there are those who continue to die, but they die less often and they belong to a class of people who, well, were on their way to a quick death anyway, or whose lives have never been deemed of equal value, equally deserving of being safeguarded—of mattering. We do not have to grieve them, the implicit argument goes, because they were, even when alive, never fully grievable, never the kind of being whose loss would be registered, marked, or mourned. So one question for industries and universities that think that a certain level of illness and death is acceptable is surely this: how much death are you willing to bring about, and whose lives will be sacrificed so that your business can reopen and your financial gain be secured? Although few would be willing to say, “I am happy with this level of illness and death,” there is a kind of happiness when celebrating the flatter curve, a line that accepts “less death” but clearly rejects “no death.” Perhaps no one is overtly smiling when they understand that “only some will have to die!” but there is a cruel joy in this calculation. When it is accepted that some death will happen, or that it makes sense that only the stronger survive, then the Eugenicist legacy comes alive in the present. The probability that the vulnerable will fall seriously ill or die is accepted as a realistic conclusion, a sign of realistic calculation, a mode of rationality that proceeds by way of a smug and even joyous cruelty. Those who are considered most vulnerable to suffering serious illness, who are most likely to die of the virus, include those who have underlying medical conditions, the disabled, those who are older, those who come from Black and brown communities regularly denied appropriate health care, and trans and queer people who have never trusted the health care system and often, when young, have trouble finding a safe shelter. As we know, a significant number of “underlying conditions” are diseases and disabilities acquired over time that result from longstanding and inadequate public assistance or affordable health care. So in those cases, the historical lack of care—sometimes the result of overt discrimination on the basis of race or ability—results in the very condition that makes a person, or a community, more exposed to serious illness or death. The circularity of this travesty of health care politics should not be overlooked. Those who do not conform to the ideal of the human, the anthropocentric norm, are precisely those whose lives come to be considered ungrievable within public norms, that is, their lives are deemed unworthy of safeguarding, deprived of the conditions that they may live and flourish. We need only look to prisons and detention centers to see how the attribution of ungrievability to Black and brown communities produces the heightened condition of precarity and the increased probability of premature death. We need only look at the serious obstacles put in the way of trans and queer people to get appropriate health care precisely because their gender or sexuality are perceived as departures from the ideal human norm as regulated in part by traditional norms governing sex and gender within the heteronormative family. Taylor draws our attention to that aspect of anthropocentrism that imagines the ideal human through its specific capacities and demeans all those humans who fail to conform to that normative ideal. Those who are perceived to embody the norm are understood as differentiated from animals. But those who fail to embody that norm are more animal than those who do. If this formulation rightly describes the hierarchy of humans over animals, it turns out to rest upon a fantasy, if not a lie, for every human is a human animal. Those human creatures who are disabled and those animal creatures whose activities are not subsumed under “distinctive human capacities” can nevertheless come together as an excluded community with the power to establish an interspecies solidarity. That ableism structures our perception of animal “deficiency” is a repeated intellectual and political point found in Taylor’s work. When the anthropocentric ideal prizes self-sufficiency over dependency it implies that dependency, and interdependency, are devalued aspects of life, even though they constitute the condition for the persistence and flourishing of living creatures. The link with animality is not only internal to the human but entails a set of interdependent relations between humans and other animals. It follows that there can be no human well-being without the well-being of animals. What would it mean to have an economy and an ecology based on such a principle, one that entails both interdependency and equality among animals? As Taylor points out, the industries that engage in the subjugation, detention, and industrial slaughter of animals also put human workers in the most precarious positions. This is especially true during the COVID-19 pandemic. Disability is in part produced by the economy that prizes production and profit over the lives of workers and animals. In Taylor’s words, “the disablement of both the animals and the workers is indeed central to how profit is created in the meat/egg/dairy business.”5 Some would say that humans who are discarded and left to die, whose lives are not considered worth supporting and assisting, are treated as animals, and for that reason we have to oppose bestialization in order to reassert human dignity. This argument tends to give ethical priority to the human and to restrict the allocation of dignity to humans alone. However, Taylor and Orning here make a different claim, namely, that being treated as an animal is not the same as living as an animal. Being treated as an animal is presumed to be bad treatment, a defining practice of anthropocentric power that seeks to install and maintain a hierarchy of the human over the animal along with a definitional distinction between them. For a human to be an animal, however, is to be an animal among animals, to have one’s human life bound up with animal life, and to live as a being whose life should be freed of the degradations and exposures implied by the anthropocentric ideal that gives dignity to some physical, intellectual, and linguistic activities over the interdependent conditions among living creatures, if not over life itself. In other words, an animal should not be “treated as an animal” if that treatment is cruel and violent. The problem with defining human dignity against bestialization is that it accepts degrading and undignified treatment of animals as an unchangeable norm. Once the norm is effectively contested, then to be treated as an animal may well be to be treated as one with an equal right to livable conditions on the planet. I would suggest that interdependency introduces a new notion of equality; it is not the equality of one human individual measured in relation to another but rather a feature of equal dependency, an equal requirement for support, for life-sustaining environments, an equal right to secure the living environment and living creatures against extinction. It is a relational rather than an individualist notion of equality. We do not take the bounded individual life form as the unit of analysis but understand, rather, that the unit is itself only sustained as a unit to the degree that it is supported in life. Thus in the very notion of the individual we find the principle that breaks it up. The support for life is a precondition of all forms of persistence. If we deny that support, we produce a version of the human who fails to understand who it is and why it lives. Further, if humans are asked to differentiate themselves from animals to gain their proper dignity, then they assume, and institute, the indignity of animal life, including their own lives. Under such conditions, striving to be human (and not animal) consists in the suppression and degradation of animality. This pathway for achieving a “dignified” human form thus requires a self-bestialization, that is, subjecting one’s own animality to bad treatment—a vain but adamant effort to disavow the animality that humans share with other animals. One does not have to be a student of advanced dialectics to see that this version of human dignity produces and requires not only the indignity of animals, but also the self-loathing of the human animal. This form of loathing, whether directed against oneself or others, is what is meant by bestialization. It is precisely not a description of the life of the animal, but only the subjugation of animality within and by a specific humanist norm based on a cruel disavowal of the relations that support the living human animal. The problem is not just that specific human activities are said to comprise human dignity, such as the capacity for abstract thought and linguistic expression regulated by standard grammars and specific forms of vocalization. Activity itself is considered a specifically human feature. The ideal seeks to disavow vulnerability, the condition of being acted upon as part of human life. And yet, without vulnerability, the human condition cannot be understood as sustained by others or institutions or exposed to each other, moved by one another, or the effects of the earth, the weather, the air, the availability of shelter, health care, and systems of care and support on the very possibility of living and thriving. In other words, the norm that defines the human as the activation of specifically human capacities rules out every gradation of passivity and (inter)personal dependency. In its quest toward a version of individuation that complies with ideals of active self-sufficiency, it disavows the social and ecological interdependency in which we come to regard ourselves and understand our ethical obligations, as living creatures among other living creatures, bound to a planet whose destruction must be effectively opposed. The COVID-19 pandemic emerges into human societies precisely at the juncture in which austerity politics has reigned, social and public services have been terminated or outsourced for private gain, and many populations have been living with intensified precarity and anxiety, which means that the very ideals of care have been relegated to the sphere of philanthropy or the family, where care once again becomes the proper domain of the feminine/maternal. Under such conditions, care is no longer conceived as a public good, an obligatory and accessible service, or a basic right. And yet, once the interdependency of human and animal life is affirmed (which entails the affirmation of the animality that is human and the animality that is not), once care is understood as both human and animal, the distinction between them no longer firmly holds. Then it becomes possible to advance a political imaginary of interdependency that values vulnerability and persistence, that exposes as a lethal fantasy the ideal of the able-bodied human as one who has no need for support, who has transcended dependency, and whose idea of itself depends upon the debasement of those who are disabled as well as animals and all those who require assistance to live. Because so-called able-bodied persons may well find themselves disabled in time, no one is by definition ablebodied in perpetuity. Neither ability nor activity will ever rightly define the human animal and its duration. To oppose such a view militates against neoliberal individualism, masculinist self-sufficiency, the degradation of manual labor and animal sacrifice, and the racial economy in which Black life is only tenuously considered human life. It would reassert the importance of social equality and social justice in light of a living world where our needs for one another are received as part of an expanded notion of interspecies kinship, community, passionate alliance, companionship (as Haraway says), and responsive ethical engagement. Taylor calls for a “coordinated political response” that gives priority to “care, interdependence, vulnerability” and that secures affordable access to life-sustaining activities of all kinds.7 This is no new demand; it is one that has been issued from disability communities since the inception of disability rights mobilization many decades ago. This demand speaks more loudly now as people who are disabled are included among those whose lives are deemed eligible for sacrifice under pandemic conditions organized within the death-driven economy. The opposition to this hierarchy of the living comes through art and activism, forms of care and public acts of mobilization. Black Lives Matter emerges in the midst of the pandemic precisely because the threat of death comes from two different sources at the same time:8 The healthcare system that has already abandoned all those who cannot pay, all those who belong to communities with inaccessible or unaffordable health care, all those who have faced, and still face, discrimination in the healthcare worlds. They will die in greater numbers and more quickly precisely because their lives have not been valued. Two possibilities are all too realistic: they will be denied care and abandoned to precarity and possible death; they will be killed by policemen in the streets, in the vans that carry them to the police station, in the prison, in various corners of the carceral economy. Black Lives Matter is a way of claiming the right to a livable life, a life that is grievable. To feel that one lives a grievable life is to know that if one died or disappeared, one’s absence would be registered and mourned, that someone would say, “this was a life!” Once that is established in life, and in relation to living creatures, they would be neither the ideal human nor the bestialized, but creatures who are able to live freely and well, supported and assisted, experimenting with ways of living together. Then surely they would not be part of any calculation that finds their deaths to be acceptable, rational, or a cause for joy. That deathly calculation now functions as pandemic rationality, calculative and cruel. Taylor and Orning point to the life-affirming countermovement opposed to pandemic neoliberalism and the rational cool of its death drive. Interdependency gives us another understanding of equality, one that troubles the distinctions between the able-bodied and the disabled. It also troubles the distinction between the human and the animal. Interdependency seeks to identify the zones of commonality from which we might continue to launch new collaborative and experimental forms, new conditions of life, where survival, passion, and flourishing are no longer exclusively human prerogatives claimed by the few who have been given to understand themselves as exemplifying the norm at the expense of all the other living beings. In her Eichmann in Jerusalem (1963), Hannah Arendt expresses her agreement with the final verdict of the Eichmann trial, namely, that Eichmann should be condemned to death, but she quarrels with the reasoning put forward at the trial and distrusted the theatricality of the trial itself.1 She thinks the trial should have focused on the acts that he committed, acts that included the making of a genocidal policy. Like the legal scholar Yosal Rogat before her, she does not think that the history of antisemitism or even the specificity of antisemitism in Germany could be tried.2 She objects to Eichmann's treatment as a scapegoat; she criticizes some of the ways that Israel used the trial to establish and legitimate its own legal authority and national aspirations. She thinks the trials failed to understand the man and his deeds. The man was either made to stand for all of Nazism and for every Nazi or he was considered the ultimate pathological individual. It seemed not to matter to the prosecutors that these two interpretations were basically in conflict. She thinks that the trial necessitated a critique of the idea of collective guilt but also a broader reflection on the historically specific challenges of moral responsibility under dictatorship. Indeed, she faults Eichmann for his failure to be critical of positive law, that is, his failure to take distance from the requirements that law and policy imposed on him; in other words, she faults him for his obedience, his lack of critical distance, or his failure to think. But more than this, she faults him as well for failing to realize that thinking implicates the subject in a sociality or plurality that cannot be divided or destroyed through genocidal aims. In her view, no thinking being can plot or commit genocide. Of course, thinking beings can have such thoughts, formulate and implement genocidal policy, as Eichmann clearly did, but such calculations cannot properly be called thinking, in her view. How, we might ask, does thinking implicate each "I" as part of a "we" such [End Page 280] that to destroy some part of the plurality of human life is to destroy not only one's self, understood as linked essentially to that plurality, but to destroy the very conditions of thinking itself? Many questions abound: is thinking to be understood as a psychological process—indeed, as something that can be properly described—or is thinking in Arendt's sense always an exercise of judgment of some kind, and so implicated in a normative practice? If the "I" who thinks is part of a "we" and if the "I" who thinks is committed to sustaining that "we," how do we understand the relation between "I" and "we" and what specific implications does thinking imply for the norms that govern politics and, especially, the critical relation to positive law?

One rhetorical feature of her book on Eichmann is that she is, time and again, breaking out into quarrel with the man himself. For the most part, she reports on the trial and the man in the third person, but there are moments in which she addresses him directly, not in the trial but in her text. One such moment is when Eichmann claims that in implementing the final solution he was acting from obedience and that he had derived this particular moral precept from his reading of Kant.

We can imagine how doubly scandalous such a moment was for Arendt. It was surely bad enough that he formulated and executed orders for the final solution, but to say, as he did, that his whole life, including his obedience to Nazi authority, was lived according to Kantian precepts was too much. He invokes "duty" in an effort to explain his own version of Kantianism. Arendt writes, "This was outrageous, on the face of it, and also incomprehensible, since Kant's moral philosophy is so closely bound up with man's faculty of judgment, which rules out blind obedience" (136). Eichmann contradicts himself as he explains his Kantian commitments. On the one hand, he clarifies, "I meant by my remark about Kant that the principle of my will must always be such that it can become the principle of general laws" (136). And yet he also acknowledges that once he was charged with the task of carrying out the final solution, he ceased to live by Kantian principles. Arendt relays his self-description: "He no longer 'was master of his own deeds,' and . . . he 'was unable to change anything'" (136). When, in the midst of his muddled explanation, Eichmann reformulates the categorical imperative, in the following way: one ought to act in such a way that the führer would approve or would himself so act, Arendt offers a swift rejoinder, as if she were delivering a direct vocal challenge to him: "Kant, to be sure, had never intended to say anything of the sort; on the contrary, to him every man was a legislator the moment he started to act; by using his 'practical reason' man found the principles that could and should be the principles of law" (136). [End Page 281]

Arendt makes this distinction between practical reason and obedience in Eichmann in Jerusalem in 1963, and eight years later she began her influential set of lectures on Kant's political philosophy at the New School for Social Research in New York City. In a way, we can understand much of Arendt's later work, including her work on willing, judgment, and responsibility, as an extended debate with Eichmann on the proper reading of Kant, an avid effort to reclaim Kant from its Nazi interpretation and to mobilize the resources of his text precisely against the conceptions of obedience that uncritically supported a criminal legal code and fascist regime. It is probably worth pointing out that Arendt's defense of Kant stands in contrast to Lacan's "Kant avec Sade," where sadism is understood to be wielded by the categorical imperative itself. And yet, interestingly, Arendt seeks recourse not to the categorical imperative but rather aesthetic judgment (reflective judgment, in particular), arguing that it is the concept of practical judgment that is most useful for the postwar reformulation of politics. At the same time, it is important to understand Arendt's alliance with Kant as following Hermann Cohen in his fidelity to Kant and to the enduring possibility of a German-Jewish thought.3

Eichmann in Jerusalem is populated with many characters and voices, and Arendt herself is occupying many positions, not all of them consistent with one another. Her single propositions have been taken out of context in the history of that text's reception, but if one follows the rhythm of the text, its internal antagonism, then one sees that Arendt is trying to formulate a position of considerable complexity and ambivalence.

Some part of her position can be cast in argumentative form. For instance, she has three main complaints against the decision: "The problem of impaired justice in the court of the victors; a valid definition of a crime against humanity; and a clear recognition of the new criminal who commits this crime" (274). It is interesting, maybe even odd, that Arendt thinks that the court failed to understand the person, the criminal, since she is everywhere reminding us that deeds can be deemed criminal, but not persons (whose characters are not on trial) and not peoples (who, as a collective, cannot be held guilty for the explicit deeds committed by individual persons). She questions the relevance of the legal convention that holds that the doer of the misdeed must have a clear "intention" to conduct the misdeed. Can it be said that Eichmann had "intentions"? If he had no conception of a misdeed, can he be said to have intentionally committed one? It seems one cannot seek recourse to his intention or, indeed, to any psychological feature of him, not only because the intentional fallacy is right but because he appears to belong to a new kind of person who can implement mass death without explicit intentions. [End Page 282] In other words, it is now possible that some persons have become, historically, instruments of implementation and that they have lost the capacity for what Arendt calls thinking. In a sense, the problem is for her both historical and philosophical: how did it come to pass that persons can now be formed in such a way that thinking, understood as the normative exercise of judgment, is no longer possible for or by them? She rejects the psychological explanation: Eichmann is neither perverted nor sadistic, in her view, but simply acted without judgment, formulating and executing a brutal law that had become normal and normalized. What was his crime, finally, according to Arendt? He failed to think; he failed to judge; indeed, he failed to make use of "practical reason" in the precise sense that Kant described and prescribed. In effect, Eichmann failed to be Kantian, even as he claimed he was.

Another part of her writing is less explicitly argumentative and relies on the rhetorical mode and force of her way of addressing both the judges and Eichmann himself. When she takes on the position of judge toward the end of the epilogue, the verdict she delivers is one that she claims that the judges in Jerusalem would have delivered themselves, had they agreed to make visible or manifest the justice done in Jerusalem. Even that phrase suggests that she thinks, in fact, a just decision was achieved, but that justice has not been properly shown or displayed, that the reasoning behind the judgment was not made publicly clear. She begins the paragraph right before her own voicing of the verdict by making the point that where it is not possible to establish intentions (which she thinks to be the case with Eichmann), it still must be possible to understand that a crime has been done. And in punishing the crime, she refuses the option of vengeance, maintaining, quoting Yosal Rogat from his pamphlet The Eichmann Trial and the Rule of Law, published in 1961, that "we refuse, and consider as barbaric, the propositions 'that a great crime offends nature, so that the very earth cries out for vengeance; that evil violates a natural harmony which only retribution can restore; that a wronged collectivity owes a duty to the moral order to punish the criminal.'"4 In his pamphlet, Rogat makes clear that such attitudes belong to an "older outlook," even a "portentous tribal relic"; they "antedate all modern patterns of thought" and "stress traditional authority and commandments against individual conscience; group bonds against personal commitments; social duties rather than individual rights."5 In Rogat's view, "Israel undertakes an aggressive defense" of the idea that group membership establishes the meaning and claims of the self. Rogat speculates that perhaps the Jews accepted persecution because it was part of "what it meant to be Jewish." Conversely, the right to punish Eichmann seemed to follow from a collective sense of identity grounded in tradition.6

Hence, Rogat remarks that within the framework of this "older outlook" even his own questions about the rule of law and the appropriateness of the trial would have been impossible to ask, since the propositions concerning the rights of the collective, of nature, and of vengeance, subsequently cited by Arendt, would have held sway. He notes in 1961 that the world is still asking the fundamental questions posed by Aeschylus's Oresteia, whether cycles of vengeance can only be stopped "with the establishment of a dispassionate tribunal."7 He writes that "the Western world has never ceased to be preoccupied with the central problem of the Oresteia. It has characteristically reacted to a deep moral disorder by attempting to impose a legal order upon it. Today, we have no alternative."8

Arendt seems largely to be in agreement with Rogat—the question, one might say, is whether she seeks to play Athena at the end of the Eumenides. One expects perhaps that the verdict that she herself will voice will be the one she would have liked to have seen, but that conclusion is not unequivocally supported by what comes next. She claims that "these long-forgotten propositions" that confirm vengeance, retribution, and natural moral orders were, in fact, both the reason Eichmann was brought to trial and the "supreme justification for the death penalty" (254). Is she rejecting these grounds, or is she showing us that these archaic forms are still with us, operative in this trial? She then adds her own sentence: "Because he had been implicated and had played a central role in an enterprise whose open purpose was to eliminate certain 'races' from the surface of the earth, he had to be eliminated" (277).

It should be easy enough to extract a clear argument from these sentences, but one is confounded time and again. Right before launching into her own voicing of the verdict, she writes that the "justice" of their actions "would have emerged to be seen by all if the judges had dared to address their defendant in something like the following terms" (374). The direct address that follows is obviously intended to be courageous, compensating for the cowardly judges in Jerusalem. But is she actually disagreeing with them? Or is she supplying a rationale that they should have used to arrive at the same conclusion? It is difficult to understand, since she could simply be presenting their rationale in a more courageous way and disagreeing with that rationale (after all, it is the long-forgotten propositions of vengeance that led them, in her view, to their final verdict). But this voicing may be a way to participate in that final judgment and to accept the contemporary form that such long-forgotten propositions (vengeance, etc.) now take. It would be odd, if not impossible, for Arendt to champion barbarism, and she has explicitly rejected it. And yet if she is voicing what the judges should  have said and referring also to the "justice" of their decision, perhaps she is simply making apparent a rationale with which she disagrees.

What seems more likely, however, is that she starts off trying to reenact what they did mean only to begin to voice what they should have meant, and then the two modalities become intertwined—the second modality fails to substitute fully for the first, and something of the first attaches itself to its refutation. She ends this direct address with "you must hang"—an archaic formulation of the death penalty, to be sure, one that positions her rhetorically as a sovereign delivering a fatal sentence and one that some might consider barbaric indeed. I propose we follow this passage and see what can possibly be meant by this outbreak into direct address when Arendt sentences Eichmann to death (again).

Arendt enters into active dialogue with Eichmann, but since he is there only by virtue of her textual invocation, she obviously does most of the talking. She engages in a direct address: "You . . . said your role in the Final Solution was an accident and that almost anybody could have taken your place, so that potentially almost all Germans are equally guilty. What you meant to say was that where all, or almost all, are guilty, nobody is" (278). Then she invokes the plural "we" to wage the counterargument: "This is indeed a common conclusion, but one we are not willing to grant you" (278). Later, she adds, "even if eighty million Germans had done as you did, this would not have been an excuse for you" (278).

In the final paragraph Arendt takes on the voice of the judge, offering a judgment as the textual equivalent of a manifest action. Interestingly, the judgment takes the form of a counterfactual. If the historical conditions had been otherwise, and if the judges had acted otherwise, the verdict would have sounded like this or looked like this. She makes clear that, in her view, the justice of what was done in Jerusalem would have emerged to be seen by all if the judges had dared to address their defendant in something like the following terms (277). A new paragraph commences, and we wait for those terms. And when a voice emerges to deliver those terms, we are not quite sure whether it is Arendt's voice or the conjectured voice of justice itself. Where is she in this paragraph? The quotation marks that inaugurate this "citation" induce the image of how justice must appear. What begins as a kind of rejoinder to Eichmann's testimony, in which she allies herself first with the position of the prosecutor, ends with the performative utterances of the judge. Of course, some of the sentences uttered by this voice sound like Arendt, but some mark a departure from both her tone and argument. Arendt claims that Eichmann's base motives and intentions cannot be established,  but the verdict-voice seems reluctantly to accept this view: you, Eichmann, maintain that "you never acted from base motives, that you never hated Jews. . . . [W]e find this difficult, but not impossible to believe"(278). There is a moment when the conjectured voice (elaborated by an Arendt who seems to know either what the judges meant or should have meant, even when they themselves seemed not to know) then conjectures what Eichmann himself meant to say but did not actually say (a veritable mise en abyme in which Arendt reconstructs the implicit reasoning of the verdict as well as the judges' reconstruction of the implicit reasoning in Eichmann's own speech): "What you meant to say is that where all, or almost all, are guilty, nobody is." In both cases, the conjectured voice establishes a position for a judgment that relies on a reconstruction and attribution of intention to those who either will not or cannot supply the principles that guide their action. The point is less to prescribe what the intentions should have been than to show that certain kinds of norms are already operative in both crime and judgment even if judge and criminal do not know what these are. These are importantly less "intentions" in any psychological sense than implicit forms of moral reasoning that emerge within the vernaculars of testimony, indictment, and the final sentence. The verdict-voice is unwilling to grant Eichmann the point that anyone would have done as he did, instructing Eichmann to consider the story of Sodom and Gomorrah in which both cities were destroyed because all of the inhabitants were guilty. This story is meant to refute Eichmann's view—but it is surely strange for Arendt to be invoking a biblical story at this juncture. What status does it have? The next line certainly sounds like her, debunking the "new-fangled notion of collective guilt" which, in her view, deflects juridical attention from the specific deeds of the person under legal scrutiny. And yet, she wants Eichmann to pay attention to that biblical story. So when she ends the paragraph by maintaining that guilt and innocence before the law are objective matters, that seems to imply that God acted to punish the inhabitants of Sodom and Gomorrah according to the nature of their crimes and in an objective fashion. In the end, though, it is clear that no matter who else is guilty, none of it excuses the crimes that Eichmann himself committed, so his individual guilt—tied to his specific acts—seems to emerge as central. This guilt is reprised in the paragraph that culminates in her final judgment:

It does not matter how what you have done compares with what others would have done: there is an "abyss" there between the potential and the actual deed. It does not matter whether your intentions were criminal or, indeed, what the state of your inner life might be or  what social conditions may have led you down this path. The final judgment is firm: "there still remains the fact that you have carried out, and therefore actively supported, a policy of mass murder."

(279) Eichmann's final crime, though, the one for which he must hang, is that he and others—he is suddenly partially deindividuated and addressed now as a plural subject ("you and your superiors")—took as their own right the decision with whom to share the earth. He thought and those he represented thought that they could determine that they did not need to "share the earth" with the Jewish people and people of other nations, and insofar as they decided that they did not need to share the earth with any specific population, no one, no member of the human race, as she puts it, "can be expected to want to share the earth with you." And it was for this crime, the crime of not sharing ("this is the reason, and the only reason"), that she concludes "you must hang" (279).

So what is the final reason that the verdict-voice offers for why Eichmann must die? Is there a reason given in these lines? Is it that no one can be expected to want to live with those who want them dead or have conspired to kill them and their kind? Or is it that no one can be expected to live with those who not only want you dead but have already taken the lives of those like you, and would have taken you had they had the chance? If Eichmann is no longer an active threat to anyone's life behind bars, is it then just a matter of "not wanting" him to live since he himself did not want whole populations to live and implemented a final solution to satisfy that murderous desire? Is the final verdict that Arendt delivers something other than vengeance? According to what law, norm, or principle is the decision in favor of capital punishment justified in this case? We have seen that Arendt considers as barbaric and rejects any recourse to vengeance, ideas of a violated natural order, or the rights of violated collectivities (277). She has been arguing all along in favor of judgment and justice, and she rehearses that argument in the postscript that follows the epilogue. What is peculiar, however, is that she remarks that these long-forgotten or archaic notions of justice were not only responsible for bringing Eichmann to trial but for the death penalty as well. This causes some confusion, since if she is referring here to those reasons that are barbaric and unacceptable, then she rejects the reasons why Eichmann was brought to trial as well as those that justified the death penalty. But is she perhaps saying that there is a certain wisdom—a nascent norm—operating in that barbarism (in the same way that there may be latent principles—the same latent principles—in the final verdict of the Jerusalem judges that they themselves do not make manifest)?  The explicit verdict Arendt offers for why Eichmann has to be eliminated is that he sought to expunge certain so-called races (or, as Arendt at times puts it, "nations") from the face of the earth. There would seem to be a principle here, and it seems to stipulate that those who seek to eradicate the plurality of human life lose the right to life and that the death penalty is justified only in cases where genocide has been established. And yet even this principle is not directly elaborated. Instead, the voice concludes, without a middle premise, that this is the reason why no one can be expected to want to live with him. This seems to be a descriptive claim. It gives an account why no one really wants Eichmann alive, but it does not explain whether that "not wanting" is a sufficient condition for the justification of the death penalty.

We read in earlier pages that the extradition of Eichmann from Argentina was neither given a legal justification nor enacted through legal means (even that Eichmann himself was unacceptably "stateless" and lacked all rights of due process). In this regard, Arendt cites Karl Jaspers, who warned that those who follow the dictates of vengeance do not stop to reflect on what the right punishment should be, which authority should be entitled to decide the matter, and according to which code of law. Everything we read in Arendt seems to favor the idea of justice over vengeance; in other words, there has to be a justice that depends on judgment and, in this case, it would be a judgment that lives up to the demand to judge an unprecedented crime. This crime is not an ordinary murder but what she calls an "administrative massacre"—this is a new crime, one that depends less on being able to establish psychological intentions than on describing politically organized modes of uncritical obedience. In this sense, Eichmann himself is a new kind of person or an unprecedented sort of criminal, and so the mechanisms and terms of justice have to be rethought and remade in order to address this new situation. Interestingly enough, although Arendt disputes the idea that we might adequately recover psychological motives and intentions in such a case, she nevertheless attributes a certain kind of intention to both Eichmann and the judges: the convention of attributing to both "what they would have said" had they dared to make plain the norms operating in their conduct. Her efforts to reconstruct their true intentions presuppose that the normative attitudes and modes of reasoning at work for them can only be reconstructed ex post facto from a counterfactual position that relies indirectly on the text they produced rather than on any explicit disclosure of their known motives at the time (perhaps a form of esoteric reading). Had they been thinking and speaking well, had they been showing justice, they would have provided themselves the principles of their conduct, but since neither did, Arendt provides those principles for them, which  means that she is in the privileged position of displaying reason. As I have suggested, the point remains not to reconstruct the psychological person or the person's psychological motivations but the implicit normative scheme operative in a mode of conduct. And though Arendt appears to succeed in recasting "intention" as a less-than-conscious operation of moral reasoning, it is difficult to see how this opaque and disowned region of ratiocination does not itself rely on a certain psychological topography, a mechanism of disavowal, perhaps even an operation of the unconscious. Indeed, Arendt's procedure is to counter their failure of self-display by an aggressive therapeutic intervention (nearly Kleinian) whose aim is to excavate and exhibit the moral commitments implicit in their mute or mangled speech.

Although Arendt appears to know better than both Eichmann and the judges what they meant to have said and even should have said, she does not remain the omniscient philosophical archaeologist at every turn. Something happens in this direct address to Eichmann that unleashes a greater emotional identification with those Jerusalem judges than her searing criticism of them would seem to permit. Her voice becomes entangled with theirs, nearly knotted up in that particular plurality. After all, the verdict-voice is and is not her own: it is the voice that the judges would have used had they dared; so what she writes here is the courageous version of the verdict. As such, she seems to own it. But as a voicing that is attributed to the judges, it seems to mark a departure from her own voice, a ventriloquism at a distance that permits for the articulation of something otherwise disowned.

To show this in a relatively convincing way, I suggest we return briefly to the paragraph that leads up to this verdict in quotation marks. After saying what the judges should have said, she continues: "Then the justice of what was done in Jerusalem would have emerged to be seen by all if the judges had dared to address their defendant in something like the following terms" (374). It seems at first that she is accepting that verdict as just. Elsewhere she has dismissed its pageantry and pervasive vengeance. It could be that Arendt is simply remarking that we would have all seen that vengeance was operating in Jerusalem if only the judges had explicitly given the right voice to justice. So is it their version of justice or the version of justice that Arendt affirms?

There are at least two interpretations about what is happening here. According to the first interpretation, Arendt is saying what the judges should have said if the judges were to have judged in a truly just way. She may even be affirming that the judges came to the right decision (something she has explicitly noted) but that they did not arrive at it in the right way and did not justify it in the right way. It may also be that there  is an implicit rationale in the judgment that the judges made and that the hermeneutic task is left to her to make that reasoning explicit, to "show" the right justification.

The second interpretation is that Arendt is, yes, giving voice to what the judges would have said had they truly made available the true justification of their actions, and she is disagreeing with that justification. According to this reading, Arendt indicts the judges, disputing that what they call justice is actually justice. But what concerns her most is that this operation of vengeance could not be seen, could not be heard, and that a certain administrative noise covered over the operation of this archaic and barbaric form of sentencing Eichmann to death.

If we were to accept this second interpretation of this text, then we still have the problem of understanding who is in fact speaking at the end of the epilogue, and what the aim and effect of this voicing within the text might be: a voice emerges in the text in the mode of direct address, and it articulates the figure of the judge. In a text in which the burden of the word is to "show" the world what is happening, the figure works to produce an image through the voice of direct address.

Perhaps some version of each of these interpretations has to be accepted. A voice is postulated by Arendt that is not her own (and so partially dis-owned), but there are also identifiable features of her own voice, and that doubling is there for us to see. It is, as it were, rhetorically displayed. So where is Arendt in this voice? Is she perhaps distributed among its views? She voices what she believes, but there is also, bound up with this voice, another voicing of the view with which she disagrees. Is this perhaps a voice split into agonistic struggle with itself ? It is interesting that in the middle of this direct address, the voice of the judge repeats Arendt's own subjunctive ventriloquism: the postulated judge is conjectured to say to the conjectured Eichmann, "What you meant to say was that where all, or almost all, are guilty, nobody is." The judges refer to Sodom and Gomorrah, but they do so in the context of telling Eichmann that in that archaic biblical story, the cities were destroyed because all of the people were guilty. The judges finally reject this view of collective guilt when they claim that the "you" that is Eichmann is not interchangeable with all Nazis or all supporters of the German Reich. That rejection of collective guilt sure sounds a lot like Arendt herself. Indeed, the distinction between actual and potential guilt sounds like Arendt as well, as does the focus not on Eichmann's inner life or his motives but on his deeds alone.

There are reasons to doubt the second interpretation, namely, that she is voicing the very rationale of vengeance that she finds barbaric and unjust. It is  surely consistent with her view to claim that nothing more than misfortune made him into a criminal. Even though within the conjectured voice she explains why people "want" him dead, Arendt has made clear that wanting someone dead is not a good enough reason for sentencing someone to death. Elsewhere she offers a less emotive argument: genocide is unacceptable because it constitutes an attack on the plurality of humanity itself. Perhaps giving voice to what the more courageous judges would have said is actually giving voice to what a more emotional Hannah Arendt would have loved to say and even does say but within unattributed quotation marks that allow her to speak the death sentence without exactly meaning it—something that is made possible by the fictive conjecture in the text.

This strangely liberated voice—indirect speech couched in direct address—actually interrupts itself at one point, suggesting that both views emanate from this voiced figure of the plural judge. The language of wanting him dead seems to decide the penultimate sentence. In the final accusation the conjectured judges underscore Eichmann's not wanting to share the earth "with the Jewish people and the people of a number of other nations" and conclude that the members of the human race do not want to share the earth with him (279). But then a certain principle emerges within dashes, suggesting that the decision is based not on desire alone but a norm that ought to be invoked in order to decide cases of genocide: "as though you and your superiors had any right to determine who should and should not inhabit the world" (279).

It is noteworthy that such an important principle emerges as an aside, even qualified by the "as though," which holds back on a full attribution of the thought. And yet here as elsewhere, the counterfactual makes plain that a right is being implicitly articulated by a mode of conduct and a specific kind of policy, even if it is not explicitly codified as such. The unattributed "we" allows Arendt's own voice to cohabit with those of the Jerusalem judges in this voiced reconstruction of a decision with more courage and illustrative power. Even within the dashes, she enters into the same procedure as before, voicing what others would have said had they language and courage enough publicly to give principle to their action. At the moment in which this voice attributes to Nazi policy the right to choose with whom to inhabit the earth/ world, it also displays something that the judges probably did not have the language or courage to articulate and oppose but which Arendt clearly does.

The philosophical and political point of her voiced rejoinder to Eichmann (and to the judges) is that one must make clear that there is no right to choose with whom to cohabit the earth or world (Arendt equivocates between this Heideggerian distinction throughout, suggesting thereby that  there is no earth without its inhabitants).9 Cohabitation with others we never chose is, in effect, an abiding characteristic of the human condition. To exercise a right to decide with whom to cohabit on this earth is to invoke a genocidal prerogative; it is only for those who have implemented genocide that the death penalty is apparently justified. We do not receive in these pages a justification for why that penalty is appropriate rather than some other form of punishment, although we do know that the appropriateness of the death penalty was debated at the time (with Martin Buber and Gershom Scholem both opposing it).10 Perhaps we are being asked to remember that just as the crime of murder is not the same as the crime of genocide, so the death penalty, meted out by the state, is not the same as random murder performed by individuals. If such an analogy is operative, and if Arendt had fully displayed the principles of her reasoning, it may be that the implicit justification in the decision to sentence Eichmann to death seeks recourse to a moral typology of modes of death-dealing that would justify the death penalty (state-induced killing under certain legal conditions) and would reject any form of genocidal death dealing, whether state-sponsored or not. This justification is, however, not offered in this passage. In its place, there is a remarkable ellipsis in the reasoning. If such an argument is anywhere, it is implicit, since the voice that has charged itself with the task of making visible the version of justice that took place in Jerusalem seems to hold back at the very moment when a principle might be enunciated. Without understanding the difference between murder as a crime and genocide as a crime against humanity, we cannot understand why the sentencing of Eichmann to death is anything other than taking the life of someone who has taken a life. The state-sponsored death penalty is clearly one way of deciding with whom to cohabit the earth, and its effort to distinguish itself from murder or genocide seems to collapse when we realize that they are all ways of choosing with whom to cohabit the earth. In this way, Arendt's principle for justifying the death penalty seems to group together those who deliver the death sentence with those who commit the crimes.

This same problem appears within Arendt's final rhetorical language. How would such a principle of reciprocity distinguish itself from vengeance or an eye for an eye ("because you wanted, everyone now wants")? But just as the conjectured voice here does not consistently embrace the rationale of vengeance, neither can it fully extricate itself from vengeance to elaborate a distinctly alternative principle. Perhaps the lability of this voice, its very duality, consists in a coupling of angry and vengeful accusation with a more dispassionate elaboration of a norm that is required to decide matters of genocide; is this strange coupling what we are meant to hear and to see?  Does the voice produce a visual spectacle of Arendt seated on the bench with the other judges, and is the voice itself populated by all of those views? Does the voice lose track of its own ventriloquism and start to cohabit (despite itself, unconsciously) in ways that signal an uncertain authorial control or, perhaps, a dispersion of authorial effect? Or are we reading and watching Arendt find the rhetorical form—itself intensely theatrical—that allows for a certain emotional license, a final telling off, a conjectured death sentence, at the same time that it inserts the principle of its own action in a more temperate and embedded aside? How else do we understand this strange staging? This ending of the epilogue is a textual theater, the production of a hybrid figure through a textual voice whose speaker never quite announces itself.

Although Arendt opposed the trial as a kind of spectacle, it would seem that she allows herself to enter the theater of the trial in this striking epilogue, if only to make sure that her version of justice must not only be done but seen to be done: this seems to be the meaning of her powerless, theatrical, and graphic display of the death sentence. Through the rhetorical use of direct address, synaesthetic effect, and the equivocal doubling of a nameless voice, she produces the textual image and sound of the judge who should have been but was not. She absorbs those Jerusalem judges into her own voice in a display that not only corrects them but joins rank with them; she gives them the principle she thinks they need and gives herself a certain license to enter the angry fray, sentencing him to death again—an act apparently no less satisfying for being redundant.

Arendt presents herself as the one who apparently knows what the judges should have said; she speaks in her own voice, and yet, in speaking as a plural subject, a "we," she also seems to fade into the background as a singular author. Can we finally separate these two strands, or are they in some ways implicated in one another, suggesting that judgment is not simply an individual act but the operation of two voices at once that are not always working in the same direction. In other words, is Arendt's multivocality in this instance an implicit or explicit enactment of the voice of plurality itself?11 If so, what kind of plurality is this? Can we take our cues from her own use of the plural "we" in this final sentencing to understand the philosophical and political importance of this plural pronoun?

The "we" she invokes at once breaks with any "we" circumscribed by the laws of the nation-state, any "we" that belongs restrictively to the nation. And yet it does not exactly describe some other "we" except to conjecture its ideal parameters: such a "we" will be plural, that is, internally differentiated, and this internally differentiated population will serve as the basis of judgment but  also as the voice through which legitimate judgment takes place. Moreover, this aspirational invocation of plurality seems to engage judgment, practical judgment in the Kantian sense, not as a way of subordinating an example to an existing rule but as a spontaneous and even creative act. She asks us to consider human judgment not as bound by existing law, "not bound by standards and rules under which particular cases are subsumed, but on the contrary, [as that which] produces its own principles by virtue of the judging activity itself: only under this assumption can we risk ourselves on this very slippery moral ground with some hope of finding some firm footing" (27).

So this plurality that Arendt invokes is a voice (a textual mode of address) speaking to Eichmann, to the judges, but also displaying itself to everyone and anyone who can read and, through reading, "see" what is being shown. It is a voice that speaks as a "we" that is by definition divided up into many; it moves in sudden and fugitive shifts between an "I" and a "we." In some sense the "we" is the pronominal vehicle for hope: the less-than-ideal judge whose conjectured voice ends this text is precisely one she wishes were speaking the truth but whose fallibility, oddly, she preserves and reenacts. So though one might expect Arendt, armed with philosophical perspicacity, to triumph over the judges, a strange scene of cohabitation emerges. She takes on the voice of the judge, or she releases herself into such a voice; but no judge is there, only an operation of judgment. It is less the station of the judge than the operation of judgment that is at issue. And in this case, we see that the operation is a plural one, populated by discordant views, emotional and divisive. In a sense, the text does not deliver an ideal of a judge but exercises judgment as a plural undertaking. It does not precisely exemplify a set of ideals but operates in a mode that can be called "critical" precisely because it is dependent on no existing law to ground its legitimacy. Since positive law can be wrong, and often is, there has to be a basis for decision-making that is not dependent on an existing codification.

Although one might expect Arendt to turn to natural law as a way to ground the legitimacy of positive law, she turns instead to a prelegal understanding of responsibility or practical reason. She not only makes the case for the priority of moral philosophy to legal institutions but invests moral philosophy with a fictive, performative, spontaneous, and aspirational character that runs contrary to its usual modalities, as well as, I would add, a theatrical and not always consistent aspect. After all, Arendt's final direct address cannot be fully transcribed into an argument: it enacts a judgment in the name of a conjectured plurality. In this sense, it is practical and performative, grounded less in existing legal code than in the nonexistence of an ideal of justice—one that I think might better be described as a recognition  of equality that follows from her conception of human plurality. If Arendt's own voice functions as the crossing of the "I" and the "we," then it seems that the plurality enacted here, in the name of which she opposes genocide, is unchosen, compelled, agonistic, and inconsistent. It is not the ideal of a group of people acting in concert, freely, and guided by a common goal. And yet it might be said that to cohabit the earth with those one never chose and to develop an ethical and political obligation to preserve the lives of those one never chose is no easy task. It means that genocide must be transformed into an agonism, incorporated and expelled, one that is to a certain extent elaborated through imaginary and theatrical means; it suggests as well that the punishment invariably continues some part of the crime, insofar as Arendt does decide—with no performative efficacy and so theatrically—that Eichmann no longer deserves to cohabit the earth with the rest of us. Does she elaborate a fictive position of sovereignty in order to condemn him to death within the fiction of her own making? Or does her voice split and counter itself in a theatrical enactment of an agonistic plurality? No one dies as a consequence of Arendt's judgment and words, and yet perhaps they show us less the reason for the death penalty than its conflicted and theatrical vacillation between vengeance and some other version of justice. If one wants to begin with most common of beginnings, namely, with the claim that one would like to be able to consider sexual politics during this time, a certain problem arises. Since, it seems clear that one cannot reference ‘this time’ without knowing which time, where that time takes hold, and for whom a certain consensus emerges on the issue of what time this is. So if it is not just a matter of differences of interpretation about what time it is, then it would seem that we have already more than one time at work in this time, and that the problem of time will afflict any effort I might make to try and consider some of these major issues now. It might seem odd to begin with a reflection on time when one is trying to speak about sexual politics and cultural politics more broadly. But my suggestion here is that the way in which debates within sexual politics are framed are already imbued with the problem of time, of progress in particular, and in certain notions of what it means to unfold a future of freedom in time. That there is no one time, that the question of what time this is, already divides us, has to do with which histories have turned out to be formative, how they intersect – or fail to intersect with other histories – and so with a question of the how temporality is organized along spatial lines. I’m not suggesting here that we return to a version of cultural difference that depends on cultural wholism. In fact, I oppose any such return. The problem is not that there are different cultures at war with one another, or that there are different modalities of time, each conceived as self-sufficient, that are articulated in different and differentiated cultural locations or that come into confused or brutal contact with one another. Of course, at some level, that could be a valid description, but it would miss an important point, namely, that hegemonic conceptions of progress define themselves over and against a premodern temporality that they produce for the purposes of their own selflegitimation. Politically, the questions, what time are we in? are all of us in the same time? and specifically, who has arrived in modernity and who has not? are all raised in the midst of very serious political contestations. The questions cannot be answered through recourse to a simple culturalism. It’s my view that sexual politics, rather than operating to the side of this contestation, is in the middle of it, and that very often claims to new or radical sexual freedoms are appropriated precisely by that point of view – usually enunciated from within state power – that would try to define Europe and the sphere of modernity as the privileged site where sexual radicalism can and does take place. Often, but not always, the further claim is made that such a privileged site of radical freedom must be protected against the putative orthodoxies associated with new immigrant communities. Let’s let that claim stand for the moment, since it carries with it a host of presuppositions that I’ll be trying to understand later in this paper. But let’s remember from the outset that this is a suspect formulation, one that is regularly made by a state discourse that seeks to produce distinct notions of sexual minorities and distinct communities of new immigrants within a temporal trajectory that makes Europe and its state apparatus into the avatar of both freedom and modernity. In my view, the problem is not that there are different temporalities in different cultural locations (and that, accordingly, we simply need to broaden our cultural frameworks to become more internally complicated and capacious). That form of pluralism accepts the distinct and wholistic framing for each of these so-called ‘communities’ and then poses an artificial question about how they might overcome their tensions. Rather, the problem is that certain notions of relevant geopolitical space – including the spatial boundedness of minority communities – are circumscribed by this story of a progressive modernity; certain notions of what ‘this time’ can and must be are similarly construed on the basis of circumscribing the ‘where’ of its happening. I should make clear that I am not opposing all notions of ‘moving forward’ and am certainly not against all versions of ‘progress’ but only that I am profoundly influenced, if not dislocated, by Walter Benjamin’s graphic means for rethinking progress and the time of the ‘now’, and that that is part of what I am bringing to bear on a consideration of sexual politics. I want to say: a consideration of sexual politics now and, of course, that is true, but perhaps my thesis is simply that there can be no consideration of sexual politics without a critical consideration of the time of the now. My claim will be that thinking through the problem of temporality and politics in this way may well open up a different approach to cultural difference, one that eludes the claims of pluralism and intersectionality alike. The point is not just to become mindful of the temporal and spatial presuppositions of some of our progressive narratives, the ones that inform various parochial, if not structurally racist, political optimisms of various kinds. But rather to show that our understanding of what is happening ‘now’ is bound up with a certain geo-political restriction on imagining the relevant borders of the world and even a refusal to understand what happens to our notion of time if we take the problem of the border (what crosses the border, and what does not, and the means and mechanisms of that crossing or impasse) to be central

to any understanding of contemporary political life. The contemporary map of sexual politics is crossed, I would say, with contentions and antagonisms, ones that define the time of sexual politics as a fractious constellation; the story of progress is but one strand within that constellation, and it is one that has, for good reason, come into crisis. My interest is to focus on how certain secular conceptions of history and of what is meant by a ‘progressive’ position within contemporary politics rely on a conception of freedom that is understood to emerge through time, and which is temporally progressive in its structure (Asad 2003;Connolly 2002;Jakobsen and Pellegrini 2004; Mahmood 2005). This link between freedom and temporal progress is often what is being indexed when pundits and public policy representatives refer to concepts like modernity or, indeed, secularism. I don’t mean to that say this is all they mean, but I do want to say that a certain conception of freedom is invoked precisely as a rationale and instrument for certain practices of coercion, and this places those of us who have conventionally understood ourselves as advocating a progressive sexual politics in a rather serious bind. In this context, I want to point to a few sites of political debate involving both sexual politics and anti-Islamic practice that suggest that certain ideas of the progress of ‘freedom’ facilitate a political division between progressive sexual politics and the struggle against racism and the discrimination against religious minorities. One of the issues that follows from such a reconstellation is that a certain version and deployment of ‘freedom’ can be used as an instrument of bigotry and coercion. This happens most frightfully when women’s sexual freedom or the freedom of expression and association for lesbian and gay people is invoked instrumentally to wage cultural assaults on Islam that reaffirm US sovereign violence. Must we rethink freedom and its implication in the narrative of progress, or must we resituate? My point is surely not to abandon freedom as a norm, but to ask about its uses, and to consider how it must be rethought if it is to resist its coercive instrumentalization in the present and have another meaning that might remain useful for a radical democratic politics. In the Netherlands, for instance, new applicants for immigration are asked to look at photos of two men kissing, and asked to report whether those photos are offensive, whether they are understood to express personal liberties, and whether the viewers are willing to live in a democracy that values the rights of gay people to open and free expression. Those who are in favour of the new policy claim that acceptance of homosexuality is the same as embracing modernity. We can see in such an instance how modernity is being defined as sexual freedom, and the particular sexual freedom of gay people is understood to exemplify a culturally advanced position as opposed to one that would be deemed pre-modern. It would seem that the Dutch government has made special arrangements for a class of people who are considered presumptively modern. The presumptively modern includes the following groups who are exempted from having to take the test: European Union nationals, asylum-seekers and skilled workers who earn more than €45,000 per year. Also exempt are citizens of the USA, Australia, New Zealand, Canada, Japan and Switzerland, where presumably homophobia is not to be found or where, rather, importing impressive income levels clearly preempts concerns over importing homophobia. In the Netherlands, of course, this movement has been brewing for some time.The identification of gay politics with cultural and political modernity was effected within European politics by Pym Fortuyn, the gay and overtly antiIslamic politician who was gunned down by a radical environmentalist in the winter of 2002. A similar conflict was also dramatized in the work and the death of Theo van Gogh, who came to stand not for sexual freedom, but for principles of political and artistic freedom. Of course, I am in favour of such freedoms, but it seems that I must also ask whether such freedoms for which I have struggled, and continue to struggle, are being instrumentalized to establish a specific cultural grounding, secular in a particular sense, that functions as a prerequisite for admission into the polity as an acceptable immigrant. In what follows, I will hope to elaborate further what this cultural grounding is, how it functions as both transcendental condition and teleological aim, and how it complicates any firm distinctions we might have between the secular and the religious. In this instance, a set of cultural norms are being articulated that are considered preconditions of citizenship. We might accept the view that there are always such norms, and even accept that full civic and cultural participation for anyone, regardless of gender or sexual orientation, be included among such norms. But are such norms not only articulated differentially, but also instrumentally, in order to shore up particular religious and cultural preconditions that affect other sorts of exclusions? One is not free to reject this cultural grounding since it is the basis, even the presumptive prerequisite, of the operative notion of freedom, and freedom is articulated through a set of graphic images, figures that come to stand for what freedom can and must be. And so a certain paradox ensues in which the coerced adoption of certain cultural norms becomes a requisite for entry into a polity that defines itself as the avatar of freedom. Is the Dutch government engaging in civic pedagogy through its defense of lesbian and gay sexual freedom, and would it impose such a test on the right-wing white supremacists, such as Vlaams Blok, who are congregated on its border with Belgium and who have called for a cordon sanitaire around Europe to keep out the non-Europeans? Is it administering tests to lesbian and gay people to make sure they are not offended by the visible practices of Muslim minorities? If the civic integration exam were part of a larger effort to foster cultural understanding about religious and sexual norms for a diverse Dutch population, one that included new pedagogies and funding for public arts projects dedicated to this purpose, we might then understand cultural ‘integration’ in a different sense, but certainly

not if it is administered coercively. In this case, though, the question raised is: does the exam become the means for testing tolerance or does it carry out an assault against religious minorities, part of a broader effort on the part of the state to demand coercively that they rid themselves of their traditional religious beliefs and practices in order to gain entry into the Netherlands? Is this a liberal defense of my freedom for which I should be pleased, or is my ‘freedom’ freedom, or is my freedom being used as an instrument of coercion, one that seeks to keep Europe white, pure, and ‘secular’ in ways that do not interrogate the violence that underwrites that very project? Certainly, I want to be able to kiss in public – don’t get me wrong. But do I want to require that everyone watch and approve before they acquire rights of citizenship? I think not. If the prerequisites of the polity require either cultural homogeneity or a model of cultural pluralism, then either way, the solution is figured as assimilation to a set of cultural norms that are understood as internally self-sufficient and self-standing. These norms are not in conflict, open to dispute, in contact with other norms, contested or disrupted in a field in which a number of norms converge – or fail to converge – in an ongoing way. The presumption is that culture is a uniform and binding groundwork of norms, and not an open field of contestation, temporally dynamic; this groundwork only functions if it is uniform or integrated, and that desideratum is required, even forcibly, for something called modernity to emerge and take hold. Of course, we can already see that this very specific sense of modernity entails an immunization against contestation, that it is maintained through a dogmatic grounding, and that already we are introduced to a kind of dogmatism that belongs to a particular secular formation. Within this framework the freedom of personal expression, broadly construed, relies upon the suppression of a mobile and contestatory understanding of cultural difference, and that the issue makes clear how state violence invests in cultural homogeneity as it applies its exclusionary policies to rationalize state policies towards Islamic immigrants. I do not traffic in theories of modernity because the concept strikes me as too large,they are,in my view,for the most part too general and sketchy to be useful, and people from different disciplines mean very different things by them; I merely note the way they function in these arguments,and restrict my comments to those kinds of uses. It makes sense to trace the discursive uses of modernity – which is something other than supplying a theory. In this regard, it seems to function neither as a signifier of cultural multiplicity nor of normative schemes that are dynamically or critically in flux, and certainly not as a model of cultural contact, translation, convergence or divergence. To the extent that both artistic expression and sexual freedom are understood as ultimate signs of this developmental version of modernity, and are conceived as rights that are supported by a particular formation of secularism, we are asked to disarticulate struggles for sexual freedom from struggles against racism and anti-Islamic sentiment. There is presumably no solidarity among such efforts within a framework such as the one I have just outlined, though we could, of course, point to existing coalitions that defy this logic. Indeed, according to this view, the struggles for sexual expression depend upon the restriction and foreclosure of rights of religious expression (if we are to stay within the liberal framework), and so we can see something of an antinomy within the discourse of liberal rights itself. But it seems to me that something more fundamental is occurring, namely, that liberal freedoms are understood to rely upon a hegemonic culture, one that is called ‘modernity’ and relies on a certain progressive account of increasing freedoms.This uncritical domain of ‘culture’ that functions as a precondition for liberal freedom in turn becomes the cultural basis for sanctioning forms of cultural and religious hatred and abjection. My point is not to trade sexual freedoms for religious ones, but, rather, to question the framework that assumes that there can be no political analysis that tries to analyse homophobia and racism in ways that move beyond this antinomy of liberalism. At stake is whether or not there can be a convergence or alliance between such struggles or whether the struggle against homophobia must contradict the struggle against cultural and religious racisms. If that framework of mutual exclusion holds – one that is derived, I would suggest, from a restrictive idea of personal liberty that is bound up with a restrictive conception of progress – then it would appear that there are no points of cultural contact between sexual progressives and religious minorities that are not encounters of violence and exclusion. But if, in the place of a liberal conception of personal freedom, we focus on the critique of state violence and the elaboration of its coercive mechanisms, we may well arrive at an alternative political framework, one that implies not only another sense of modernity, but also of the time, the ‘now’, in which we live. It was Thomas Friedman who claimed in The New York Times that Islam has not yet achieved modernity, suggesting that Islam is somehow in a childish state of cultural development and that the norm of adulthood is represented more adequately by critics such as himself.  In this sense, then, Islam is conceived as not of this time or our time, but as another time, one that only anachronistically emerged in this time. But is not such a view precisely the refusal to think of this time not as one time, as one story, developing unilinearly, but rather as a convergence of histories that have not always been thought together, and whose convergence or lack thereof presents a set of quandaries that might be said to be definitive of our time? A similar dynamic is to be found in France where questions of sexual politics converge in some unhappy ways with anti-immigration politics. Of course, there are profound differences as well. In contemporary France, the culture that is publicly defended against new immigrant communities draws only selectively on normative ideals that structure debates on sexual politics. For instance, dominant French opinion draws upon rights of contract that have

been extended through new sexual politics at the same time that it limits those very rights of contract when they threaten to disrupt patrilineal kinship and its links to masculinist norms of nationhood. Ideas of ‘culture’ and of ‘laïcité’ (or secularism) work differently, and one sees how a certain kind of ostensibly progressive sexual politics is sanctioned, again, as the logical culmination of a secular realization of freedom at the same time that the very same conception of secular freedoms operates as a norm to exclude or to minimize the possibility of ethnic and religious communities from North Africa, Turkey, and the Middle East from attaining full rights of civic and legal membership and participation. Indeed, the situation is even more complex, since the idea of culture, bound up with a conception of symbolic law, is regarded as founding the freedom to enter into free associations, but is also invoked to limit the freedom of lesbian and gay people from adopting children or gaining access to reproductive technology, thus avowing the rights of contract, but refusing challenges to the norms of kinship. The arguments that secured the legislative victory for the PACS, those legal partnerships into which any two people, regardless of gender, may enter, are based on an extension of those rights to form contracts on the basis of one’s own volition (Borillo, Fassin and Iacub 2004).And yet, once the cultural preconditions of that freedom are abrogated, the law intervenes to maintain – or even mandate – that cultural integrity. One can rather quickly conclude, on the basis of a variety of opinions published in French journals and newspapers, that there is a widely held belief that, for instance, gay and lesbian parenting runs the risk of producing a psychotic child. The extraordinary support among French republicans for the PACS has depended from the start on the separation of the PACS from any rights to adoption or to parenting structures outside the heterosexual norm. In the newspapers and throughout public discourse, social psychologists argue that lesbian or gay parenting – and this would include single-mother parenting as well – threatens to undermine the very framework that a child requires in order (a) to know and understand sexual difference and (b) to gain an orientation in the cultural world. The presumption is that if a child has no father, that child will not come to understand masculinity in the culture, and, if it is a boy child, that child will have no way to embody or incorporate his own masculinity. This argument assumes many things, but chief among them is the idea that the institution of fatherhood is the sole or major cultural instrument for the reproduction of masculinity. Even if we were to accept the problematic normative claim that a boy child ought to be reproducing masculinity (and there are very good reasons to question this assumption), any child has access to a range of masculinities that are embodied and transmitted through a variety of cultural means. The ‘adult world’, as Jean Laplanche puts it in an effort to formulate a psychoanalytic alternative to the Oedipal triad, impresses its cultural markers on the child from any number of directions, and the child, whether boy or girl, must fathom and reckon with those norms. But in France, as you may know, the notion of a ‘framework of orientation’ – called ‘le repère’ – is understood to be uniquely transmitted by the father. And this symbolic function is ostensibly threatened or even destroyed by the presence of two fathers, of an intermittent father, or of no father at all. One has to struggle not to get lured into this fight on these terms, since the fight misconstrues the issue at stake. But if one were to get lured into the fight, one could, of course, make the rejoinder that masculinity can certainly be embodied and communicated by a parent of another gender. However, if I argue that way, I concede the premise that the parent is and must be the unique cultural site for the communication and reproduction of gender, and that would be a foolish point to concede.After all, why accept the idea that without a single embodied referent for masculinity, there can be no cultural orientation as such? Such a position makes the singular masculinity of the father into the transcendental condition of culture rather than rethinks masculinity and fatherhood as a set of disarticulated, variable and variably significant cultural practices.To understand this debate, it is important to remember that lines of patrilineality in France are secured in the civil code through rights of filiation. To the extent that heterosexual marriage maintains its monopoly on reproduction, it does so precisely through privileging the biological father as the representative of national culture. Thus, the debates on sexual politics invariably become bound up with the politics of new immigrant communities, since both rely on foundational ideas of culture that precondition the allocation of basic legal entitlements. If we understand these ideas of culture as secular, then it seems to me that we may well not have a sufficient vocabulary for understanding the traditions from which these ideas of culture are formed – and by which they continue to be informed – or for the force by which they are maintained. It here becomes clear that the theories of psychological development that produce the patrilineal conditions of national culture constitute the ‘norms of adulthood’ that precondition the substantive rights of citizenship. Thus, Ségolène Royal, the 2006 Socialist party presidential nominee of France, can join Nicolas Sarkozy, the successful candidate, in arguing that les émeutes, the 2005 riots, in the banlieue were the direct consequence of a deterioration in family structures, represented by new immigrant communities. The theme of a certain childishness re-emerges in this context as well, such that we are to understand the political expressions of Islamic minorities as failures of psycho-cultural development. These kinds of arguments parallel the parent/child relation that Thomas Friedman articulated in relation to secular modernity, where the ‘parent’ figured as a fully developed adult. Anachronistic Islam is figured here as the child who suffers permanently from thwarted development. Family politics, even the heterosexual ordering of the family, function to secure the temporal sequence that establishes French culture at the forefront of modernity. This version of modernity involves an odd situation in which an

intractable developmental law sets limits on volitional freedom, but the contract form extends freedom almost limitlessly. In other words, contracts can be extended to any pair of consenting adults – the legal achievement of the PACS that has become relatively normalized for both straight and lesbian/gay couples. But such partnerships have to be rigorously separated from kinship that, by definition, precedes and limits the contract form. These norms of kinship are referenced by the term, l’ordre symbolique, which actually functions in public discourse, and it is this order that has to be protected, underwriting contract relations as it must be immunized against a full saturation by contract relations.Whether or not such an order is unambiguously secular is, in my view, another question, an open question, but there are many reasons to question whether it transmits and maintains certain theological notions, predominantly Catholic. This becomes explicitly clear, for instance, in its defense by the work of anthropologist Francoise Heritier who argues, on Catholic grounds, that the symbolic order is both theologically derived and a prerequisite of psycho-social development. The refusal to grant legal recognition for gay parenting works in tandem with anti-Islamic state policies to support a cultural order, l’ordre symbolique, that keeps heterosexual normativity tied to a racist conception of culture. This order, conceived as pervasively paternal and nationalist, is equally, if differently, threatened by those kinship arrangements understood to be operative in new immigrant communities that fail to uphold the patriarchal and marital basis of the family, which in turn produces the intelligible parameters of culture and the possibility of a ‘knowing orientation’ within that culture. Of course, what is most peculiar about this critique of the absent father in the banlieue is not only that it can be found among socialists and their right wing foes, but that it fails to recognize that contemporary immigration law is itself partially responsible for reforging kinship ties in certain ways. After all, the French government has been willing to separate children from parents, to keep families from reunifying, and to maintain inadequate social services for new immigrant communities. Indeed, some critics have gone so far as to argue that social services constitute the emasculation of the state itself. One can see one such view articulated, for instance, by Michel Schneider, a psychoanalyst who registers his views on cultural affairs, and who has publicly maintained that the state must step in to take the place of the absent father, not through welfare benefits (itself conceived as a maternal deformation of the state), but through the imposition of law, discipline, and uncompromising modes of punishment and imprisonment (Scheider 2005). In his view, this is the only way to secure the cultural foundations of citizenship, that is, the cultural foundations that are required for the exercise of a certain conception of freedom. Thus, the state policies that create extreme class differentials, pervasive racism in employment practices, efforts to separate families in order to save children from Islamic formations, and efforts to sequester the banlieue as intensified sites of racialized poverty, are exonerated and effaced through such explanations. Anti-racist demonstrations such as those that happened in 2005 took aim at property, and not persons, and yet they were widely interpreted as the violent and arelational acts of young men whose family structures were lacking firm paternal authority. A certain prohibitive ‘no’ was absent from the family and the culture, and the state thus acts as a compensatory paternal authority in such a situation. That the state then develops a host of rationales for regulating family and school in the banlieue is further proof that the state responds to such insurgency through consolidating and augmenting its power in relation to biopolitics and kinship arrangements at every level. Thus, we might conclude that at a basic level, the entitlement to a notion of freedom that is based on contract is limited by those freedoms that might extend the contract too far, that is, to the point of disrupting the cultural preconditions of contract itself. In other words, disruptions in family formation or in kinship arrangements that do not support the lines of patrilineality and the corollary norms of citizenship rationalize state prohibitions and regulations that augment state power in the image of the father, that missing adult, that cultural fetish which signifies a maturity that is based upon violence. The rules that define culture as supported by the heterosexual family clearly are also those that set the prerequisites for entering into citizenship. Although in France this is the basis of laïcité, and the grounds for state intervention to maintain a certain cultural grounding for the rights of men, it is not far from the clearly theological view of the current Pope who voices his condemnation of gay parenting and Islamic religious practice on common grounds. This parallelism raises the question of the status of this idea of culture as part of secular modernity and, in particular, whether the symbolic order is finally a secular concept (and if so, what this tells us about the impurity of secularism). In particular, it raises the question of whether this symbolic order, understood as a binding and uniform set of rules that constitute culture, functions in alliance with theological norms governing kinship. This view, interestingly enough, is not far from the Pope’s view that the heterosexual family is what secures gender in its natural place, a natural place that inscribes a divine order. Whereas in France, the notion of ‘culture’ is precisely what communicates the universal necessity of sexual difference, understood as the unequivocal difference between masculine and feminine, in present-day Catholic theology, we find that the family not only requires two discrete sexes, but is obligated to embody and reproduce sexual difference as both a cultural and theological necessity. In his 2004 ‘Letter to the Bishops of the Catholic Church in the Collaboration of Men and Women in the Church and the World’, Ratzinger considers two approaches to women’s issues. The first, he maintains, sustains an oppositional relationship to men. The second seems to pertain to the new gender politics that takes gender to be a variable social function. Ratzinger characterizes this second strand of feminism with the following language: In order to avoid the domination of one sex or the other,their differences tend to be denied, viewed as mere effects of historical and cultural conditioning. In this perspective, physical difference, termed sex, is minimized, while the purely cultural element, termed gender, is emphasized to the maximum and held to be primary.The obscuring of the difference or duality of the sexes has enormous consequences on a variety of levels. This theory of the human person, intended to promote prospects for equality of women through liberation from biological determinism, has in reality inspired ideologies which, for example, call into question the family, in its natural two-parent structure of mother and father, and make homosexuality and heterosexuality virtually equivalent, in a new model of polymorphous sexuality. He goes further to suggest that this second approach to women’s issues is rooted in a motivation understood as ‘the human attempt to be freed from one’s biological conditioning. According to this perspective, human nature in itself does not possess characteristics in an absolute manner: all persons can and ought to constitute themselves as they like, since they are free from every predetermination linked to their essential constitution’. In France, the view that culture itself is carried by the heterosexual family, patrilineally defined, is communicated clearly through the notion that a child without heterosexual parentage will not only be without cognitive orientation, but will be precluded from the cultural and cognitive prerequisites of citizenship. This explains in part why France was able to extend rights of contract through the passage of the PACS, but to oppose every effort to legalize gay parenting. It is, as I argue elsewhere, linked to the conviction that new immigrant communities lack a strong paternal figure, and that full rights of citizenship require subjection to an embodiment of paternal law. For some French politicians, this analysis leads to the conclusion that the state must enter into the regulation of the family where it is perceived that strong fathers do not exist. This has actually led to the forced separation of parents and children through new immigration policy, i.e. one that works in favour of the father and so, the symbolic family, even if it means destroying existing ones. If the Pope refers to the natural laws of culture when he opposes gay and lesbian sexuality and non-heterosexual parenting arrangements, he refers to civilization when he makes his indirect denunciations of Islam. In late 2006, of course, we had new proclamations from the papal authority. The Pope publicly cited a document that contained the following denunciation of Islam: ‘Show me just what Mohammed brought that was new, and there you will find things only evil and inhuman, such as his command to spread by the sword the faith he preached. Ratzinger claimed that this statement was not his, that he was only citing it, but if one looks closely, it becomes clear that he cites it, distances Sexual politics, torture, and secular time himself from it, and then mobilizes it to issue a warning about the current threat to civilization that Islam represents. Of course, there are many ways to approach this rather astonishing declaration, most obviously by pointing to the bloodshed by which Christianity sought to spread its own faith over the last many centuries. But I’d like briefly to point to the word ‘inhuman’ since it is coupled with ‘evil’ and we have already considered what the Pope thinks about the cultural foundations of the human as such. Additionally, as the sword is prohibited as a means of coercing faith in the Qur’an, it surely becomes a term of transference in this scenario, since to whom did the sword belong when it operated in the service of forced conversion if not to Christianity? Precisely because swords are not the weapons of choice in a contemporary sense, they evince a mythical time, a tribalist archaism, and also become precisely the nexus of fantasy. I could go on at length, but I want here only to point out the extraordinary inversion of history that the word ‘sword’ permits, and the enormous ideological force of distinguishing between the human, as that which is presumably only supported by a JudeoChristian culture, and the ‘inhuman’ and ‘evil’ that follows from a departure from that culture. Let’s remember, as Uri Avnery points out, that Islam was never forced upon the Jews, that when Spain was conquered by Catholics and the Muslims were dispossessed of power, the Inquisition was turned against both Muslims and Jews, and Sephardic Jews found hospitality in Arab countries for fifty generations. When the Pope refers to this ‘sword’ wielded by those who are less than human, we have to wonder what inversion, displacement, and effacement of history is congealed in this strange proposition, a kind of dream-speak at best, that manifests its profound alliance with what it proclaims to disdain and disavow. Indeed, the entire sequence of proclamations enacted this disavowal and displacement in plain view. It is as if he were saying: I said it, I did not say it; I cited it; others said it, and so it has authority; this is their aggression, this is my aggression circuited through their aggression, though I have no aggression. The figure through which I name the aggression of Islam is a figure of Christianity’s own aggression, at which point thefigures converge, and the ability to sustain the distinction between Islam and Christianity founders. Of course, it is that distinction that the Pope seeks to underscore, to make certain, to establish without a shadow of a doubt. But his language upends his argument, starting with the strange way he appropriates and disavows the citation. The paradox has a social and even psychoanalytic valence, but it seems also to proceed from a certain idea of development and civilizational progress (noting here that one has to distinguish between culture and civilization for all kinds of reasons, but that the latter, despite its origin in the replacement of ecclesiastical authorities by civic courts of law, functions discursively at the present moment to effect a syncretism of religious and secular ideals). Now it may be in relation to the above sorts of arguments that we try to make a case for a purely secular resistance. But I am less sure that our ideas of secularism do not already carry religious content, and that we are, with any of these positions, invoking an unalloyed secularism (it may be that secularism can only be defined by its implication in the very religious traditions from which it seeks to distinguish itself, but that is a broader question that I can only gesture toward in this context). Provisionally, I would suggest that secularism has a variety of forms, and many of them involve forms of absolutism and dogmatism that are surely as problematic as those that rely on religious dogma. In fact, a critical perspective does not line up perfectly with the distinction between religious and secular thinking. Let us remember that it is the idea of culture in the French instance, a notion of culture that understands itself as‘secular’,which clearly works in tandem with the papal argument.And though the Pope argues on religious grounds,there are clearly religious opponents to the Pope’s views, a situation that suggests that we ought not to understand secularism as the sole source of critique,and religion as the sole source of dogmatism. If religion functions as a key matrix for the articulation of values, and if most of the people in this global condition look to religion to guide their thinking on such matters, we would make a political error in claiming that religion ought to be overcome in each and every instance. Consider that religion is not simply a set of beliefs or a set of dogmatic views,but a matrix for subject formation whose final form is not determined in advance; a discursive matrix for the articulation and disputation of values, and a field of contestation. Similarly, it won’t do to embrace secularism as if it were a monolith, since the diversity of secularisms often gain their definition by the nature of the break they make with specific religious inheritances. However, sometimes secularism achieves its definition through the disavowal of a religious tradition that inchoately and continuously informs and supports its own ostensibly post-religious claims. I think the non-contradictory status of the secular Jew, for instance, makes this point explicitly.We can also see this at work, for instance, in the differential treatment of religious minorities within an ostensibly secular framework, since laïcité in France is defined precisely over and against the intrusion of Church authorities into matters of state. The debate on whether girls should be prohibited from wearing the veil in public schools seemed to bring this paradox into relief.The ideas of the secular were invoked to consolidate ignorant and hateful views of Islamic religious practice (i.e. the veil is nothing other than the communication of the idea that women are inferior to men, or the veil communicates an alliance with ‘fundamentalism’), at which point laïcité becomes a way not of negotiating or permitting cultural difference, but a way of consolidating a set of cultural presumptions that effect the exclusion and abjection of cultural difference. If I opened this essay by wondering about the implications of secular progress as a temporal framework for thinking about the sexual politics during this time, I’d like to suggest now that what is at issue is less any and all ways of looking forward (I hold out for those – I look forward to those!), but an idea of development in which secularism does not so much succeed religion sequentially, but reanimates religion as part of its ideas of culture and civilization. On the one hand, the kind of secularism we are witnessing in France denounces and surpasses the very religious content that it also reanimates in the very terms by which culture is defined. In the case of papal authority, we see a different recourse to a framework, presumptively timeless and binding, that is at once cultural and theological, suggesting an invariable implication of one sphere in the other. These are not quite the same as the idea of Dutch civic integration, but perhaps there are parallelisms, even phantom resonances, that are worth exploring further. The problem is, of course, not progress per se, nor surely the future, but specific developmental narratives in which certain exclusionary and ever persecutory norms become at once the precondition and teleology of culture. Thus, framed both as transcendental condition and as teleology, culture in such instances can only produce a monstrous spectre of what lies outside its own framework of temporal thinkability. Outside of its own teleology exists a ruinous and foreboding sense of the future, and what lies before its transcendental condition lurks an aberrant anachronism, threatening, and intruding upon, the political present that becomes the grounds for general alarm within the secular frame. I write this as one who is trying to come to a critical understanding and a political opposition to the discourse on Islam that is currently propagated by the USA. That leads us to yet another discourse, that of the civilizing mission, and there is not much time to try to delineate its logic here or to trace its resonance with these other developmental patterns I have been trying to discern today. It is probably worth noting in brief, however, that the USA takes its own civilizing mission to be a cross of secular and non-secular perspectives. After all, Bush tells us he is guided by God, and for whatever reason, this is the discourse that he mobilizes at times to rationalize his extra-legal, if not criminal, actions. It would appear that both the secular frame and the civilizational mission, itself only ambiguously secular, are figured as the advanced position that entitles itself to bring notions of democracy to those who are characterized as pre-modern, who have not yet entered into the secular terms of the liberal state, and whose notions of religion are invariably considered childish, fanatic or structured according to ostensibly irrational and primitive taboos. The civilizational mission, as it has been described by Samuel Huntington, is itself a self-avowed mix of religious and secular ideals. The notion that the USA, representing what he calls, somewhat wildly, ‘the West’, is considered to have undergone modernization, to have arrived at secular principles that transcend and accommodate religious position, that are more advanced and finally more rational and, hence, more capable of democratic deliberation and self-governance. And yet the ideals of democracy that Huntington espouses

are also those that express the values of a Judaeo-Christian tradition, a view that suggests that all other religious traditions are outside the trajectory of modernization that constitutes civilization and its ‘missionary’ claim to the future. If the Islamic populations destroyed in the recent and current war are considered less then human or ‘outside’ the cultural conditions for the emergence of the human, then they belong either to a time of cultural infancy or to a time that is outside time as we know it. In both cases, they are regarded as not yet having arrived at the idea of the rational human. It follows from such a viewpoint that the destruction of such populations, their infrastructures, their housing and their religious and community institutions, constitutes the destruction of what threatens the human, but not the human itself. It is also precisely this particular conceit of a progressive history that positions the ‘West’ as articulating the paradigmatic principles of the human – humans worth valuing, whose lives are worth safeguarding, protecting, whose lives are precarious, and worth public grieving as well. Finally, then, let me offer a final discussion on torture and take us back to the question of temporality and the rethinking of cultural difference. Let me suggest first that the USA made use of bad anthropology when it devised its protocols of torture. The Department of Defense assigned a text from the 1970s called ‘The Arab Mind’, which assumed that there was such a mind, that it could be characterized in general ways with respect to the religious beliefs, and specific sexual vulnerabilities of people from Arab descent (Patai 2002). The text subscribed to that form of cultural anthropology that treated cultures as self-sufficient and distinctive, which refused the global mixing of cultural and social formations, and which considered itself beyond moral judgment and more generally in the service of cultural tolerance. I want to suggest that the massive reduction of Arab life to ‘the Arab mind’ produced a ready object for the US military and for the protocols of torture enacted under the direction of General Geoffrey Miller. Since of course there is no ‘Arab mind’, and it is not possible to attribute the same fears and anxieties across the Arab world in its geographical complexity and its cosmopolitan formulations, the text constructed an object that it could then manipulate. Strategies for extracting information from this mind were devised, and they were applied in the various scenes of torture that have become visually available to us as well as those that remain unrepresented in any media form. Those who devised these schemes of torture sought to understand the specific vulnerabilities of a population formed within Islam; and developed their plans as a kind of sexual targeting that was at once a form of religious bigotry or hatred. But what we have to remember is that the subject of Islam was also constructed through the torture, and the anthropological text, as well as the protocols, were part of the production of that subject within the discourse of the military. I want to be careful here, so let me repeat this formulation: the torture was not merely an effort to find ways to shame and humiliate the prisoners of Abu Ghraib and Guantanamo on the basis of their presumptive cultural formation. The torture was also a way to coercively produce the Arab subject and the Arab mind.That means that regardless of the complex cultural formations of the prisoners, they were compelled to embody the cultural reduction described by this anthropological text. Let’s remember that the text does not have an epistemically privileged relation to its subject. It is part of the project to compel the production of that subject, and we will have to ask why. This perspective has not been considered in most of the debates that have predominated on this issue within the mainstream media. There have been, broadly speaking, two ways to approach this issue within a liberal framework. The first is an argument on the basis of cultural rights and cultural violations. It argues that these orchestrated scenes of sexual and physical humiliation exploit the specific sexual vulnerabilities of these populations. The second position is that one requires a normative condemnation of this torture that makes no reference to culture, since clearly these actions would be wrong and punishable no matter against whom they were perpetrated or who was perpetrating them. The first view, which emphasizes cultural rights, is espoused by the US journalist Seymour Hersh (2004a, b), and the argument maintains that specifically cultural violations occurred in the course of these tortures, ones that have to do with modesty, taboos on homosexuality, and conditions of public exposure and shame.The torture also broke down social codes of sexual difference, forcing men to wear women’s lingerie, and debasing women through forced nudity. I want to suggest that both of these frameworks for understanding the torture are necessary, but finally insufficient. Yes, there were clearly specific cultural violations at work and these acts of torture were clearly wrong according to any normative framework worth its name, but we have to include both of these views within a larger framework if we are to understand how the scenes of sexual debasement and physical torture are part of the civilizing mission and, in particular, its efforts to seize absolute control over the construction of the subject of torture. If we ask what is at stake in producing the Arab subject as a distinctive locus of sexual and social vulnerability, we have to find out what subject position is being staked not only by the US military, but by the war effort more generally. If we want to speak about ‘specific cultures’, then it would make sense to begin with the specific culture of the US army, its emphatic masculinism and homophobia, and ask why it must, for its own purposes, cast the predominantly Islamic population against which it wages war as the site of primitive taboo and shame. I want to suggest that a civilizational war is at work in this context that casts the army as the more sexually progressive culture. The army considers itself more sexually ‘advanced’ because they read pornography or impose it upon their prisoners, because they overcome all inhibition in exploiting and breaking down the inhibitions of those they torture. The ostensible ‘superiority’ of the army consists in its capacity to wage war not against military subjects, and not only against the putative sexual and moral codes of Islam, but in their ability to coercively construct the Arab subject through the enacted protocols of torture. The point is not simply to break down the codes, but to construct a subject that would break down when coercively forced to break such codes – and I suppose we have to ask – which subject would not break down under those conditions? It may be that the torturer postures as one whose impermeability is won at the expense of the radical permeability of the tortured, but that posturing cannot deny a fundamental permeability that traverses all corporeal life. More specifically, for the army to break down those codes is itself an act of domination, but it is also a way of exercising and exemplifying a freedom that is at once lawless and coercive, one that has come to represent and enact the civilizing mission.After all, there can be no civilization with Islam on the ‘inside’ according to the avatars of Huntington and theorists of the so-called ‘Arab mind.’ And yet, if we look closely at what is being represented as the civilizing mission, it consists of unbridled homophobic and misogynist practices. Thus, we have to understand the torture as the actions of a homophobic institution against a population that is both constructed and targeted for its own shame about homosexuality; the actions of a misogynist institution against a population in which women are cast in roles bound by codes of honour and shame, and so not ‘equal’ in the way that women ostensibly are in the West. In this way, we can see the photographs that the US army distributed of women without the veil as a sign of the US ‘triumph’ in Afghanistan as prefiguring the digital capture and coerced stripping and violation that US soldiers perpetrated in Abu Ghraib and Guantanamo. In addition, we can see here the association of a certain cultural presumption of progress with a license to engage in unbridled destruction. More specifically, at work in this mode of implicit rationalization is a crude deployment and exploitation of the norm of ‘freedom’ as it operates in contemporary sexual politics, one in which ‘freedom’ becomes not only the means of coercion, but what some might call ‘the jouissance of torture.’ If we ask what kind of freedom this is, it is one that is free of the law at the same time that it is coercive; it is an extension of the logic that establishes state power – and its mechanisms of violence – as beyond the law.This is not a freedom that belongs to a rights discourse, unless we understand the right to be free of all legal accountability as the right in question. There are at least two countervailing trends at work in the scenes of torture. On the one hand, the Iraqi prisoner population is considered precisely as pre-modern to the extent that it is understood to embody certain prohibitions and inhibitions in relation to homosexuality, exposure, masturbation, and nudity. The army not only makes use of bad cultural essentialism to make this point, but the torture becomes the way of testing and ratifying the thesis of bad cultural essentialism. In fact, I would go further: the torture can be understood in this regard as a technique of modernization. Unlike those disciplinary regimes of subject formation that would seek to transform the tortured into exemplary modern subjects, torture of this kind seeks to expose the status of the tortured as the permanent, abased, and aberrant outside to subject-formation as such. If these are subjects of some kind, they are outside the civilizational trajectory that secures the human, which gives the defenders of civilization the ‘right’ to exclude them more violently. Because these are coercive techniques of modernization, however, the question of a barbarity specific to secular modernism is also at stake. And in this regard, we can see that the civilizational mission effected by the military in its acts of torture complicates the progressive narrative that would rationalize the war against Islam. We also see in abbreviated form the ‘deployment’ of a position of sexual freedom to coerce capitulation to sexual humiliation, at which point the ‘coercive’ dimension of this historical version of the modern secularization project makes itself graphically available. It should be clear that I see the acts of torture neither as aberrant individual acts nor as fully conscious and strategic goals of the US military. Rather, I understand the coercive nature of these acts of humiliation and torture as making explicit a coercion that is already at work in the civilizational mission and, most particularly, in the forced instatement of a cultural order that figures Islam as abject, backward, foreboding ruination and, as a consequence, requiring subordination within and exclusion from the culture of the human itself. This logic is not far from the disavowal and displacement that marked the Pope’s rhetoric on Islam. If Islam is figured as definitionally violent, yet encumbered by inhibiting rules, to the extent it is violent, it requires new disciplinary rules; to the extent that it is rule-bound, it requires an emancipation that only modernity can bring. I am not claiming that denying someone rights of immigration is the same as subjecting that person to sexual torture. But I am suggesting that the rigorous exclusion of norms of Islamic community pose a threat to culture, even to prevailing norms of humanization. And when some group of people comes to represent a threat to the cultural conditions of humanization and of citizenship, then the rationale for their torture and their death is secured. In the case of sexual torture, a noxious deployment of the notion of sexual freedom is at work: ‘we embody that freedom, you do not; therefore, we are free to coerce you, and so to exercise our freedom, and you, you will manifest your unfreedom to us, and that spectacle will serve as the visual justification for our onslaught against you.’ Of course, this is different from the unveiling of the Afghani women that took place on the front page of The New York Times, but is there a common presupposition at work? Have feminism and the struggle for sexual freedom become, horrifyingly, within these contexts a ‘sign’ of the civilizational mission in progress? Can we even begin to understand the scenes of torture if we cannot account for the homophobia in the military as it acts on populations who are formed religiously through a taboo on homosexuality? What kind of encounter is this, then, at the scene of torture, in which a violent homophobia and misogyny exploit the presumptive homophobia and misogyny of its victims? If we focus on the latter, even within a framework of tolerance or cultural rights or specific cultural violations, we lose sight of the precise exploitation at work in the scene of torture. The homophobia and misogyny seem more central to the scene of torture than any homophobia and misogyny that one may have attributed to the tortured population, or indeed, that one might understand as the specific liability or backwardness of Islam itself. Whatever the relation is between Islam and the status of women, let’s begin with the proposition that it is complex, historically changing, and not available to a quick reduction (I want to suggest that Suad Joseph’s edited collection on Women in Islamic Cultures, four volumes of which have already been published by Brill, might be a good place to start for an English speaking audience). What is at issue in the scene of torture is the nexus of violence and sexuality that belongs to the civilizational thesis as it has been formulated in the context of this war. After all, the USA is bringing civilization to the ostensibly ‘backward’ or pre-modern Islamic Other. And what it brings, most clearly, is torture as the instrument and sign of civilization. These are not aberrant moments of a war, but, rather, the cruel and spectacular logic of US imperial culture as it operates in the context of its current wars. The scenes of torture are conducted in the name of civilization against barbarism, and we can see that the ‘civilization’ at issue is part of a dubious secular politics that is no more enlightened or critical by virtue of its secularism than the worst forms of dogmatic and restrictive religion. In fact, the historical, rhetorical, and logical alliances between them may be more profound than we know. The barbarism at issue here is the barbarism of the civilizational mission, and any counterimperialist politics, especially a feminist and queer one, must oppose it at every turn. For the point, here, is to establish a politics that opposes state coercion and violence, and to build a framework that can see how the violence done in the name of preserving a certain modernity and conceit of cultural homogeneity or integration is the most serious threat to freedom. If the scenes of torture are the apotheosis of a certain conception of freedom, it is one that is free of all law and free of all constraint precisely in order to impose law and to exercise coercion. That there are competing notions of freedom at stake is obvious, though it is probably worth noting that the freedom to be protected from coercion and violence is among the meanings that have been lost from view. So, too, is the ability to think time, this time, outside of that teleology that violently installs itself as both origin and end of the culturally thinkable. The possibility of a political framework that opens up our ideas of cultural norms to contestation and dynamism within a global frame would surely be one way to begin to think a politics that re-engages sexual freedom in the context of allied struggles against racism, nationalism, and the persecution of national and religious minorities. I’m not at all sure we need to gather those struggles within a unified framework. As I hope I have shown, at least in preliminary form, to insist on a unified cultural framework as a precondition of politics, whether secular or religious, or both, is to preclude from political contestation precisely such a framework. If, as Marx insists, the point of departure for our analysis must be the historical present, then it seems to me that a new way of understanding how temporalities conflict and converge will be necessary for any complex description of that present. This means, I think, resisting both unified frameworks that would distill the antagonisms in question into equivalent rights claims, but also refusing those developmental narratives that know in advance in what a just view of human flourishing consists. It is always possible to show not only the various ways in which Islam is modern but also, just as importantly, a demonstration of how certain secular ideals could not have been developed without their transmission and elaboration through Islamic practices. But the point is not to show that we are all modern. If modernity seeks to constitute itself through a continuous and unfolding idea of time, and if some of our personal liberties are conceptualized within that notion of a continuous and unfolding realization, then perhaps we would do well to remember Nietzsche’s quip from The Will to Power,‘Mankind does not advance, it does not even exist’ (Nietzche 1968). More salient, perhaps, is Walter Benjamin’s insistence in the thirteenth of his Theses on the Philosophy of History ‘that the concept of the historical progress of mankind cannot be sundered from the concept of its progression through a homogenous, empty time. A critique of the concept of such a progression must be the basis of any criticism of the concept of progress itself’ (Benjamin 1968. All subsequent references to this text are cited parenthetically). He notes in a subsequent thesis that ‘the awareness that they are about to make the continuum of history explode is characteristic of the revolutionary classes at the moment of their action’ (261). The historian who understands how the past flashes up, how the past is not past, but continues in the present, is one who understand ‘the time of the now’ as ‘shot through with chips of Messianic time’ (263). Benjamin’s emphatically non-secular reference here does not rely on an ideal future to come, but rather on the interruptive force of the past on a present that effaces all qualitative differences through its homogenizing effect. The ‘constellation’ which is one’s own era is precisely the difficult and interruptive scene of multiple temporalities, ones that cannot be reduced to cultural pluralism or a liberal discourse of rights. For Benjamin, in the final line of those theses,‘every second of time was the strait gate through which the Messiah might enter’, an historical condition under which political responsibility for the present exists precisely ‘now.’ It is not by accident that Benjamin understood the revolutionary action as the strike, as the rejection of coercive state power. That power relies on a certain taken-for-granted notion of historical progress to legitimate itself as the ultimately modern achievement. To separate the ‘now time’ from these claims of modernity is to undercut the temporal framework that uncritically supports state power, its legitimating effect, and its coercive instrumentalities. Without a critique of state violence and the power it wields to construct the subject of cultural difference, our claims to freedom risk an appropriation by the state that can make us lose sight of all our other commitments. And only with such a critique of state violence do we stand a chance of finding and acknowledging the already existing alliances and sites of contact, however antagonistic, with other minorities in order to consider systemically how coercion seeks to divide us and to keep attention deflected from the critique of violence itself. It is only by coming to terms with the epistemic shifts among critical perspectives, both secular and religious, that any of us will be able to take stock of the time and place of politics. If freedom is one of the ideals we hope for, perhaps it will be important to start by remembering how easily freedom can become deployed in the name of a state self-legitimation whose coercive force gives the lie to its claim to safeguard humanity. Maybe then we can rethink freedom, even freedom from coercion, as a condition of solidarity among minorities, and how necessary it is to formulate sexual politics in the context of a pervasive critique of this war.
