The interview of Sunaura Taylor by Sara E. S. Orning takes
us through the first months of the COVID-19 pandemic, the
dissolution of networks of care, and the creation of new sustaining bonds. Together they foreground the questions, where are the new
systems of support? And how are they working? Taylor has thought
more deeply than almost anyone else in academic and activist worlds
about the relationship among humanness, animality, and disability. The
COVID-19 pandemic is the occasion in which she now rethinks what she
has published in Beasts of Burden: Animal and Disability Liberation (2017),
assisted by Orning whose own thoughtful reflections emerge in her
capacious and incisive questions. The interview is itself a form of collaborative thinking as well as a form of intellectual care. The question,
“how are you living?” precedes the question, “what are you thinking?”
But the answer to the latter question returns us again to the conditions
of life and the living.
As the COVID-19 pandemic persists, it does not maintain a static
form. As much as it lays bare inequalities, such as social and physical
vulnerabilities, it also intensifies them for workers compelled to risk
their lives in crammed and poorly ventilated factories in jobs with high
levels of human contact that fail to protect against the virus. These
jobs expose workers to precarity and illness in the service of capitalist
production and profit. The networks of care that are relied upon are
to some degree state sponsored. But more often they take the form of
networks of social solidarity, mutual aid societies, extra-familial pods,
and cross-regional exchanges on the knowledge and tactics of getting
through, modes of support, that include sustaining social connectedness,
however provisional. Care is not just what mothers do, or are supposed
to do, and where there is care, it no longer simply indicates that the
maternal is also in play. The problem is not just that some mothers don’t
care, but rather that care is much broader than any maternal task. Only
under conditions in which the gendered division of labor is intensified
in closed heteronormative domestic units do mothers become the locus
and source of care. And yet, when “radical care” becomes a principle of
global solidarity, as it does in the recent collaborative work of Lynne Segal 
and Catherine Rottenberg in Care Manifesto, we are given the chance to
understand new modes of kinship beyond heteronormative domesticity
as well as the situation for careworkers—those who stack the shelves at
grocery stores, deliver packages (especially medicine and food), work
in health care, or drive the public transportation vehicles that remain
the only option for many disabled people to move from place to place.1
As the discourse on “essential workers” ramps up, the stakes in defining
whose work is “essential” have never been higher. Whose work will be
deemed “inessential,” and just how close to “dispensable” will such a
category make them?
COVID-19 time is splintered time. This we learn from the interview and
the myriad readings on which it draws. In the sometimes manic effort
to restart the market economy, workers are dispatched, threatened with
termination, and compelled to achieve greater productivity for the profit
that drives the entire scene. But this forward drive comes at the cost of
living creatures, both human and animal, as meatpacking industries deal
death to animals and expose humans to the virus in ever greater numbers
with impunity. Reopening the markets, and keeping the markets open, is
claimed by Donald Trump, Jair Bolsonaro, and their allies as the way to
reestablish the good and prosperous life for those who are accustomed
to that as their right and privilege. This avid celebration of market life
disavows the death drive central to the capitalist machine: the dispensability of workers and the spreading of both human and animal death,
as exemplified by the Trumpian Defense Production Act that, Taylor
points out, mandates at once the continued killing of animals and the
sacrifice of human labor. As Orning tells us, “crip time” is precisely a
protest against that form of normative and linear time bound up with
capitalist production, one that insists upon “taking the time the body
needs to live, create, work, and thrive.”
 In her response, Taylor relays her
wish that “we could all pause, slow down, enter viral time, contemplate,
care for each other, and reflect on what this whole situation says about
our relationships to each other, and to other species and ecosystems.”3
The question of who is made more vulnerable under pandemic conditions brings us back to the kind of calculation that is made about whose
lives are deemed dispensable and whose lives are treated as precious,
as worthy of living on. The verdict of “dispensability” gathers workers,
the disabled, and animals together in a class of beings whose lives are
deemed appropriate for sacrifice, for the purposes of keeping the productive (market) and financial economy moving forward and upward.
When the COVID-19 curve is relatively flat, or lower than what it previously was, we are asked to understand this as a great success, but what
exactly is being communicated to us with such enthusiasm? Yes, there are those who continue to die, but they die less often and they belong to a
class of people who, well, were on their way to a quick death anyway, or
whose lives have never been deemed of equal value, equally deserving
of being safeguarded—of mattering. We do not have to grieve them,
the implicit argument goes, because they were, even when alive, never
fully grievable, never the kind of being whose loss would be registered,
marked, or mourned.
 So one question for industries and universities
that think that a certain level of illness and death is acceptable is surely
this: how much death are you willing to bring about, and whose lives
will be sacrificed so that your business can reopen and your financial
gain be secured? Although few would be willing to say, “I am happy
with this level of illness and death,” there is a kind of happiness when
celebrating the flatter curve, a line that accepts “less death” but clearly
rejects “no death.” Perhaps no one is overtly smiling when they understand that “only some will have to die!” but there is a cruel joy in this
calculation. When it is accepted that some death will happen, or that it
makes sense that only the stronger survive, then the Eugenicist legacy
comes alive in the present. The probability that the vulnerable will fall
seriously ill or die is accepted as a realistic conclusion, a sign of realistic
calculation, a mode of rationality that proceeds by way of a smug and
even joyous cruelty.
Those who are considered most vulnerable to suffering serious illness,
who are most likely to die of the virus, include those who have underlying
medical conditions, the disabled, those who are older, those who come
from Black and brown communities regularly denied appropriate health
care, and trans and queer people who have never trusted the health care
system and often, when young, have trouble finding a safe shelter. As
we know, a significant number of “underlying conditions” are diseases
and disabilities acquired over time that result from longstanding and
inadequate public assistance or affordable health care. So in those cases,
the historical lack of care—sometimes the result of overt discrimination
on the basis of race or ability—results in the very condition that makes
a person, or a community, more exposed to serious illness or death.
The circularity of this travesty of health care politics should not be
overlooked. Those who do not conform to the ideal of the human, the
anthropocentric norm, are precisely those whose lives come to be considered ungrievable within public norms, that is, their lives are deemed
unworthy of safeguarding, deprived of the conditions that they may live
and flourish. We need only look to prisons and detention centers to see
how the attribution of ungrievability to Black and brown communities
produces the heightened condition of precarity and the increased probability of premature death. We need only look at the serious obstacles put in the way of trans and queer people to get appropriate health care
precisely because their gender or sexuality are perceived as departures
from the ideal human norm as regulated in part by traditional norms
governing sex and gender within the heteronormative family.
Taylor draws our attention to that aspect of anthropocentrism that
imagines the ideal human through its specific capacities and demeans
all those humans who fail to conform to that normative ideal. Those
who are perceived to embody the norm are understood as differentiated
from animals. But those who fail to embody that norm are more animal
than those who do. If this formulation rightly describes the hierarchy
of humans over animals, it turns out to rest upon a fantasy, if not a lie,
for every human is a human animal. Those human creatures who are
disabled and those animal creatures whose activities are not subsumed
under “distinctive human capacities” can nevertheless come together
as an excluded community with the power to establish an interspecies
solidarity. That ableism structures our perception of animal “deficiency”
is a repeated intellectual and political point found in Taylor’s work.
When the anthropocentric ideal prizes self-sufficiency over dependency
it implies that dependency, and interdependency, are devalued aspects
of life, even though they constitute the condition for the persistence
and flourishing of living creatures. The link with animality is not only
internal to the human but entails a set of interdependent relations
between humans and other animals. It follows that there can be no human well-being without the well-being of animals. What would it mean
to have an economy and an ecology based on such a principle, one that
entails both interdependency and equality among animals? As Taylor
points out, the industries that engage in the subjugation, detention, and
industrial slaughter of animals also put human workers in the most precarious positions. This is especially true during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Disability is in part produced by the economy that prizes production
and profit over the lives of workers and animals. In Taylor’s words, “the
disablement of both the animals and the workers is indeed central to
how profit is created in the meat/egg/dairy business.”5
Some would say that humans who are discarded and left to die, whose
lives are not considered worth supporting and assisting, are treated as
animals, and for that reason we have to oppose bestialization in order
to reassert human dignity. This argument tends to give ethical priority
to the human and to restrict the allocation of dignity to humans alone.
However, Taylor and Orning here make a different claim, namely, that
being treated as an animal is not the same as living as an animal. Being treated as an animal is presumed to be bad treatment, a defining
practice of anthropocentric power that seeks to install and maintain a hierarchy of the human over the animal along with a definitional
distinction between them. For a human to be an animal, however, is
to be an animal among animals, to have one’s human life bound up
with animal life, and to live as a being whose life should be freed of the
degradations and exposures implied by the anthropocentric ideal that
gives dignity to some physical, intellectual, and linguistic activities over
the interdependent conditions among living creatures, if not over life
itself. In other words, an animal should not be “treated as an animal” if
that treatment is cruel and violent. The problem with defining human
dignity against bestialization is that it accepts degrading and undignified treatment of animals as an unchangeable norm. Once the norm is
effectively contested, then to be treated as an animal may well be to be
treated as one with an equal right to livable conditions on the planet.
I would suggest that interdependency introduces a new notion of equality; it is not the equality of one human individual measured in relation to
another but rather a feature of equal dependency, an equal requirement
for support, for life-sustaining environments, an equal right to secure
the living environment and living creatures against extinction. It is a
relational rather than an individualist notion of equality. We do not take
the bounded individual life form as the unit of analysis but understand,
rather, that the unit is itself only sustained as a unit to the degree that
it is supported in life. Thus in the very notion of the individual we find
the principle that breaks it up. The support for life is a precondition of
all forms of persistence. If we deny that support, we produce a version
of the human who fails to understand who it is and why it lives. Further,
if humans are asked to differentiate themselves from animals to gain
their proper dignity, then they assume, and institute, the indignity of
animal life, including their own lives. Under such conditions, striving to
be human (and not animal) consists in the suppression and degradation
of animality. This pathway for achieving a “dignified” human form thus
requires a self-bestialization, that is, subjecting one’s own animality to
bad treatment—a vain but adamant effort to disavow the animality that
humans share with other animals. One does not have to be a student of
advanced dialectics to see that this version of human dignity produces
and requires not only the indignity of animals, but also the self-loathing
of the human animal. This form of loathing, whether directed against
oneself or others, is what is meant by bestialization. It is precisely not a
description of the life of the animal, but only the subjugation of animality within and by a specific humanist norm based on a cruel disavowal
of the relations that support the living human animal.
The problem is not just that specific human activities are said to
comprise human dignity, such as the capacity for abstract thought and linguistic expression regulated by standard grammars and specific forms
of vocalization. Activity itself is considered a specifically human feature.
The ideal seeks to disavow vulnerability, the condition of being acted
upon as part of human life. And yet, without vulnerability, the human
condition cannot be understood as sustained by others or institutions
or exposed to each other, moved by one another, or the effects of the
earth, the weather, the air, the availability of shelter, health care, and
systems of care and support on the very possibility of living and thriving.
In other words, the norm that defines the human as the activation of
specifically human capacities rules out every gradation of passivity and
(inter)personal dependency. In its quest toward a version of individuation
that complies with ideals of active self-sufficiency, it disavows the social
and ecological interdependency in which we come to regard ourselves
and understand our ethical obligations, as living creatures among other
living creatures, bound to a planet whose destruction must be effectively
opposed. The COVID-19 pandemic emerges into human societies precisely at the juncture in which austerity politics has reigned, social and
public services have been terminated or outsourced for private gain,
and many populations have been living with intensified precarity and
anxiety, which means that the very ideals of care have been relegated to
the sphere of philanthropy or the family, where care once again becomes
the proper domain of the feminine/maternal. Under such conditions,
care is no longer conceived as a public good, an obligatory and accessible service, or a basic right.
And yet, once the interdependency of human and animal life is affirmed (which entails the affirmation of the animality that is human and
the animality that is not), once care is understood as both human and
animal, the distinction between them no longer firmly holds. Then it
becomes possible to advance a political imaginary of interdependency
that values vulnerability and persistence, that exposes as a lethal fantasy
the ideal of the able-bodied human as one who has no need for support,
who has transcended dependency, and whose idea of itself depends upon
the debasement of those who are disabled as well as animals and all those
who require assistance to live. Because so-called able-bodied persons
may well find themselves disabled in time, no one is by definition ablebodied in perpetuity. Neither ability nor activity will ever rightly define
the human animal and its duration. To oppose such a view militates
against neoliberal individualism, masculinist self-sufficiency, the degradation of manual labor and animal sacrifice, and the racial economy
in which Black life is only tenuously considered human life. It would
reassert the importance of social equality and social justice in light of a
living world where our needs for one another are received as part of an
expanded notion of interspecies kinship, community, passionate alliance,
companionship (as Haraway says), and responsive ethical engagement.
Taylor calls for a “coordinated political response” that gives priority
to “care, interdependence, vulnerability” and that secures affordable
access to life-sustaining activities of all kinds.7
 This is no new demand; it
is one that has been issued from disability communities since the inception of disability rights mobilization many decades ago. This demand
speaks more loudly now as people who are disabled are included among
those whose lives are deemed eligible for sacrifice under pandemic
conditions organized within the death-driven economy. The opposition
to this hierarchy of the living comes through art and activism, forms of
care and public acts of mobilization. Black Lives Matter emerges in the
midst of the pandemic precisely because the threat of death comes from
two different sources at the same time:8
 The healthcare system that has
already abandoned all those who cannot pay, all those who belong to
communities with inaccessible or unaffordable health care, all those who
have faced, and still face, discrimination in the healthcare worlds. They
will die in greater numbers and more quickly precisely because their lives
have not been valued. Two possibilities are all too realistic: they will be
denied care and abandoned to precarity and possible death; they will
be killed by policemen in the streets, in the vans that carry them to the
police station, in the prison, in various corners of the carceral economy.
Black Lives Matter is a way of claiming the right to a livable life, a life that
is grievable. To feel that one lives a grievable life is to know that if one
died or disappeared, one’s absence would be registered and mourned,
that someone would say, “this was a life!” Once that is established in
life, and in relation to living creatures, they would be neither the ideal
human nor the bestialized, but creatures who are able to live freely and
well, supported and assisted, experimenting with ways of living together.
Then surely they would not be part of any calculation that finds their
deaths to be acceptable, rational, or a cause for joy.
That deathly calculation now functions as pandemic rationality, calculative and cruel. Taylor and Orning point to the life-affirming countermovement opposed to pandemic neoliberalism and the rational cool
of its death drive. Interdependency gives us another understanding of
equality, one that troubles the distinctions between the able-bodied and
the disabled. It also troubles the distinction between the human and the
animal. Interdependency seeks to identify the zones of commonality from
which we might continue to launch new collaborative and experimental
forms, new conditions of life, where survival, passion, and flourishing
are no longer exclusively human prerogatives claimed by the few who
have been given to understand themselves as exemplifying the norm at
the expense of all the other living beings.