In her Eichmann in Jerusalem (1963), Hannah Arendt expresses her agreement with the final verdict of the Eichmann trial, namely, that Eichmann should be condemned to death, but she quarrels with the reasoning put forward at the trial and distrusted the theatricality of the trial itself.1 She thinks the trial should have focused on the acts that he committed, acts that included the making of a genocidal policy. Like the legal scholar Yosal Rogat before her, she does not think that the history of antisemitism or even the specificity of antisemitism in Germany could be tried.2 She objects to Eichmann's treatment as a scapegoat; she criticizes some of the ways that Israel used the trial to establish and legitimate its own legal authority and national aspirations. She thinks the trials failed to understand the man and his deeds. The man was either made to stand for all of Nazism and for every Nazi or he was considered the ultimate pathological individual. It seemed not to matter to the prosecutors that these two interpretations were basically in conflict. She thinks that the trial necessitated a critique of the idea of collective guilt but also a broader reflection on the historically specific challenges of moral responsibility under dictatorship. Indeed, she faults Eichmann for his failure to be critical of positive law, that is, his failure to take distance from the requirements that law and policy imposed on him; in other words, she faults him for his obedience, his lack of critical distance, or his failure to think. But more than this, she faults him as well for failing to realize that thinking implicates the subject in a sociality or plurality that cannot be divided or destroyed through genocidal aims. In her view, no thinking being can plot or commit genocide. Of course, thinking beings can have such thoughts, formulate and implement genocidal policy, as Eichmann clearly did, but such calculations cannot properly be called thinking, in her view. How, we might ask, does thinking implicate each "I" as part of a "we" such [End Page 280] that to destroy some part of the plurality of human life is to destroy not only one's self, understood as linked essentially to that plurality, but to destroy the very conditions of thinking itself? Many questions abound: is thinking to be understood as a psychological process—indeed, as something that can be properly described—or is thinking in Arendt's sense always an exercise of judgment of some kind, and so implicated in a normative practice? If the "I" who thinks is part of a "we" and if the "I" who thinks is committed to sustaining that "we," how do we understand the relation between "I" and "we" and what specific implications does thinking imply for the norms that govern politics and, especially, the critical relation to positive law?

One rhetorical feature of her book on Eichmann is that she is, time and again, breaking out into quarrel with the man himself. For the most part, she reports on the trial and the man in the third person, but there are moments in which she addresses him directly, not in the trial but in her text. One such moment is when Eichmann claims that in implementing the final solution he was acting from obedience and that he had derived this particular moral precept from his reading of Kant.

We can imagine how doubly scandalous such a moment was for Arendt. It was surely bad enough that he formulated and executed orders for the final solution, but to say, as he did, that his whole life, including his obedience to Nazi authority, was lived according to Kantian precepts was too much. He invokes "duty" in an effort to explain his own version of Kantianism. Arendt writes, "This was outrageous, on the face of it, and also incomprehensible, since Kant's moral philosophy is so closely bound up with man's faculty of judgment, which rules out blind obedience" (136). Eichmann contradicts himself as he explains his Kantian commitments. On the one hand, he clarifies, "I meant by my remark about Kant that the principle of my will must always be such that it can become the principle of general laws" (136). And yet he also acknowledges that once he was charged with the task of carrying out the final solution, he ceased to live by Kantian principles. Arendt relays his self-description: "He no longer 'was master of his own deeds,' and . . . he 'was unable to change anything'" (136). When, in the midst of his muddled explanation, Eichmann reformulates the categorical imperative, in the following way: one ought to act in such a way that the führer would approve or would himself so act, Arendt offers a swift rejoinder, as if she were delivering a direct vocal challenge to him: "Kant, to be sure, had never intended to say anything of the sort; on the contrary, to him every man was a legislator the moment he started to act; by using his 'practical reason' man found the principles that could and should be the principles of law" (136). [End Page 281]

Arendt makes this distinction between practical reason and obedience in Eichmann in Jerusalem in 1963, and eight years later she began her influential set of lectures on Kant's political philosophy at the New School for Social Research in New York City. In a way, we can understand much of Arendt's later work, including her work on willing, judgment, and responsibility, as an extended debate with Eichmann on the proper reading of Kant, an avid effort to reclaim Kant from its Nazi interpretation and to mobilize the resources of his text precisely against the conceptions of obedience that uncritically supported a criminal legal code and fascist regime. It is probably worth pointing out that Arendt's defense of Kant stands in contrast to Lacan's "Kant avec Sade," where sadism is understood to be wielded by the categorical imperative itself. And yet, interestingly, Arendt seeks recourse not to the categorical imperative but rather aesthetic judgment (reflective judgment, in particular), arguing that it is the concept of practical judgment that is most useful for the postwar reformulation of politics. At the same time, it is important to understand Arendt's alliance with Kant as following Hermann Cohen in his fidelity to Kant and to the enduring possibility of a German-Jewish thought.3

Eichmann in Jerusalem is populated with many characters and voices, and Arendt herself is occupying many positions, not all of them consistent with one another. Her single propositions have been taken out of context in the history of that text's reception, but if one follows the rhythm of the text, its internal antagonism, then one sees that Arendt is trying to formulate a position of considerable complexity and ambivalence.

Some part of her position can be cast in argumentative form. For instance, she has three main complaints against the decision: "The problem of impaired justice in the court of the victors; a valid definition of a crime against humanity; and a clear recognition of the new criminal who commits this crime" (274). It is interesting, maybe even odd, that Arendt thinks that the court failed to understand the person, the criminal, since she is everywhere reminding us that deeds can be deemed criminal, but not persons (whose characters are not on trial) and not peoples (who, as a collective, cannot be held guilty for the explicit deeds committed by individual persons). She questions the relevance of the legal convention that holds that the doer of the misdeed must have a clear "intention" to conduct the misdeed. Can it be said that Eichmann had "intentions"? If he had no conception of a misdeed, can he be said to have intentionally committed one? It seems one cannot seek recourse to his intention or, indeed, to any psychological feature of him, not only because the intentional fallacy is right but because he appears to belong to a new kind of person who can implement mass death without explicit intentions. [End Page 282] In other words, it is now possible that some persons have become, historically, instruments of implementation and that they have lost the capacity for what Arendt calls thinking. In a sense, the problem is for her both historical and philosophical: how did it come to pass that persons can now be formed in such a way that thinking, understood as the normative exercise of judgment, is no longer possible for or by them? She rejects the psychological explanation: Eichmann is neither perverted nor sadistic, in her view, but simply acted without judgment, formulating and executing a brutal law that had become normal and normalized. What was his crime, finally, according to Arendt? He failed to think; he failed to judge; indeed, he failed to make use of "practical reason" in the precise sense that Kant described and prescribed. In effect, Eichmann failed to be Kantian, even as he claimed he was.

Another part of her writing is less explicitly argumentative and relies on the rhetorical mode and force of her way of addressing both the judges and Eichmann himself. When she takes on the position of judge toward the end of the epilogue, the verdict she delivers is one that she claims that the judges in Jerusalem would have delivered themselves, had they agreed to make visible or manifest the justice done in Jerusalem. Even that phrase suggests that she thinks, in fact, a just decision was achieved, but that justice has not been properly shown or displayed, that the reasoning behind the judgment was not made publicly clear. She begins the paragraph right before her own voicing of the verdict by making the point that where it is not possible to establish intentions (which she thinks to be the case with Eichmann), it still must be possible to understand that a crime has been done. And in punishing the crime, she refuses the option of vengeance, maintaining, quoting Yosal Rogat from his pamphlet The Eichmann Trial and the Rule of Law, published in 1961, that "we refuse, and consider as barbaric, the propositions 'that a great crime offends nature, so that the very earth cries out for vengeance; that evil violates a natural harmony which only retribution can restore; that a wronged collectivity owes a duty to the moral order to punish the criminal.'"4 In his pamphlet, Rogat makes clear that such attitudes belong to an "older outlook," even a "portentous tribal relic"; they "antedate all modern patterns of thought" and "stress traditional authority and commandments against individual conscience; group bonds against personal commitments; social duties rather than individual rights."5 In Rogat's view, "Israel undertakes an aggressive defense" of the idea that group membership establishes the meaning and claims of the self. Rogat speculates that perhaps the Jews accepted persecution because it was part of "what it meant to be Jewish." Conversely, the right to punish Eichmann seemed to follow from a collective sense of identity grounded in tradition.6 

Hence, Rogat remarks that within the framework of this "older outlook" even his own questions about the rule of law and the appropriateness of the trial would have been impossible to ask, since the propositions concerning the rights of the collective, of nature, and of vengeance, subsequently cited by Arendt, would have held sway. He notes in 1961 that the world is still asking the fundamental questions posed by Aeschylus's Oresteia, whether cycles of vengeance can only be stopped "with the establishment of a dispassionate tribunal."7 He writes that "the Western world has never ceased to be preoccupied with the central problem of the Oresteia. It has characteristically reacted to a deep moral disorder by attempting to impose a legal order upon it. Today, we have no alternative."8

Arendt seems largely to be in agreement with Rogat—the question, one might say, is whether she seeks to play Athena at the end of the Eumenides. One expects perhaps that the verdict that she herself will voice will be the one she would have liked to have seen, but that conclusion is not unequivocally supported by what comes next. She claims that "these long-forgotten propositions" that confirm vengeance, retribution, and natural moral orders were, in fact, both the reason Eichmann was brought to trial and the "supreme justification for the death penalty" (254). Is she rejecting these grounds, or is she showing us that these archaic forms are still with us, operative in this trial? She then adds her own sentence: "Because he had been implicated and had played a central role in an enterprise whose open purpose was to eliminate certain 'races' from the surface of the earth, he had to be eliminated" (277).

It should be easy enough to extract a clear argument from these sentences, but one is confounded time and again. Right before launching into her own voicing of the verdict, she writes that the "justice" of their actions "would have emerged to be seen by all if the judges had dared to address their defendant in something like the following terms" (374). The direct address that follows is obviously intended to be courageous, compensating for the cowardly judges in Jerusalem. But is she actually disagreeing with them? Or is she supplying a rationale that they should have used to arrive at the same conclusion? It is difficult to understand, since she could simply be presenting their rationale in a more courageous way and disagreeing with that rationale (after all, it is the long-forgotten propositions of vengeance that led them, in her view, to their final verdict). But this voicing may be a way to participate in that final judgment and to accept the contemporary form that such long-forgotten propositions (vengeance, etc.) now take. It would be odd, if not impossible, for Arendt to champion barbarism, and she has explicitly rejected it. And yet if she is voicing what the judges should  have said and referring also to the "justice" of their decision, perhaps she is simply making apparent a rationale with which she disagrees.

What seems more likely, however, is that she starts off trying to reenact what they did mean only to begin to voice what they should have meant, and then the two modalities become intertwined—the second modality fails to substitute fully for the first, and something of the first attaches itself to its refutation. She ends this direct address with "you must hang"—an archaic formulation of the death penalty, to be sure, one that positions her rhetorically as a sovereign delivering a fatal sentence and one that some might consider barbaric indeed. I propose we follow this passage and see what can possibly be meant by this outbreak into direct address when Arendt sentences Eichmann to death (again).

Arendt enters into active dialogue with Eichmann, but since he is there only by virtue of her textual invocation, she obviously does most of the talking. She engages in a direct address: "You . . . said your role in the Final Solution was an accident and that almost anybody could have taken your place, so that potentially almost all Germans are equally guilty. What you meant to say was that where all, or almost all, are guilty, nobody is" (278). Then she invokes the plural "we" to wage the counterargument: "This is indeed a common conclusion, but one we are not willing to grant you" (278). Later, she adds, "even if eighty million Germans had done as you did, this would not have been an excuse for you" (278).

In the final paragraph Arendt takes on the voice of the judge, offering a judgment as the textual equivalent of a manifest action. Interestingly, the judgment takes the form of a counterfactual. If the historical conditions had been otherwise, and if the judges had acted otherwise, the verdict would have sounded like this or looked like this. She makes clear that, in her view, the justice of what was done in Jerusalem would have emerged to be seen by all if the judges had dared to address their defendant in something like the following terms (277). A new paragraph commences, and we wait for those terms. And when a voice emerges to deliver those terms, we are not quite sure whether it is Arendt's voice or the conjectured voice of justice itself. Where is she in this paragraph? The quotation marks that inaugurate this "citation" induce the image of how justice must appear. What begins as a kind of rejoinder to Eichmann's testimony, in which she allies herself first with the position of the prosecutor, ends with the performative utterances of the judge. Of course, some of the sentences uttered by this voice sound like Arendt, but some mark a departure from both her tone and argument. Arendt claims that Eichmann's base motives and intentions cannot be established,  but the verdict-voice seems reluctantly to accept this view: you, Eichmann, maintain that "you never acted from base motives, that you never hated Jews. . . . [W]e find this difficult, but not impossible to believe"(278). There is a moment when the conjectured voice (elaborated by an Arendt who seems to know either what the judges meant or should have meant, even when they themselves seemed not to know) then conjectures what Eichmann himself meant to say but did not actually say (a veritable mise en abyme in which Arendt reconstructs the implicit reasoning of the verdict as well as the judges' reconstruction of the implicit reasoning in Eichmann's own speech): "What you meant to say is that where all, or almost all, are guilty, nobody is." In both cases, the conjectured voice establishes a position for a judgment that relies on a reconstruction and attribution of intention to those who either will not or cannot supply the principles that guide their action. The point is less to prescribe what the intentions should have been than to show that certain kinds of norms are already operative in both crime and judgment even if judge and criminal do not know what these are. These are importantly less "intentions" in any psychological sense than implicit forms of moral reasoning that emerge within the vernaculars of testimony, indictment, and the final sentence. The verdict-voice is unwilling to grant Eichmann the point that anyone would have done as he did, instructing Eichmann to consider the story of Sodom and Gomorrah in which both cities were destroyed because all of the inhabitants were guilty. This story is meant to refute Eichmann's view—but it is surely strange for Arendt to be invoking a biblical story at this juncture. What status does it have? The next line certainly sounds like her, debunking the "new-fangled notion of collective guilt" which, in her view, deflects juridical attention from the specific deeds of the person under legal scrutiny. And yet, she wants Eichmann to pay attention to that biblical story. So when she ends the paragraph by maintaining that guilt and innocence before the law are objective matters, that seems to imply that God acted to punish the inhabitants of Sodom and Gomorrah according to the nature of their crimes and in an objective fashion. In the end, though, it is clear that no matter who else is guilty, none of it excuses the crimes that Eichmann himself committed, so his individual guilt—tied to his specific acts—seems to emerge as central. This guilt is reprised in the paragraph that culminates in her final judgment:

It does not matter how what you have done compares with what others would have done: there is an "abyss" there between the potential and the actual deed. It does not matter whether your intentions were criminal or, indeed, what the state of your inner life might be or  what social conditions may have led you down this path. The final judgment is firm: "there still remains the fact that you have carried out, and therefore actively supported, a policy of mass murder."

(279)
Eichmann's final crime, though, the one for which he must hang, is that he and others—he is suddenly partially deindividuated and addressed now as a plural subject ("you and your superiors")—took as their own right the decision with whom to share the earth. He thought and those he represented thought that they could determine that they did not need to "share the earth" with the Jewish people and people of other nations, and insofar as they decided that they did not need to share the earth with any specific population, no one, no member of the human race, as she puts it, "can be expected to want to share the earth with you." And it was for this crime, the crime of not sharing ("this is the reason, and the only reason"), that she concludes "you must hang" (279).

So what is the final reason that the verdict-voice offers for why Eichmann must die? Is there a reason given in these lines? Is it that no one can be expected to want to live with those who want them dead or have conspired to kill them and their kind? Or is it that no one can be expected to live with those who not only want you dead but have already taken the lives of those like you, and would have taken you had they had the chance? If Eichmann is no longer an active threat to anyone's life behind bars, is it then just a matter of "not wanting" him to live since he himself did not want whole populations to live and implemented a final solution to satisfy that murderous desire? Is the final verdict that Arendt delivers something other than vengeance? According to what law, norm, or principle is the decision in favor of capital punishment justified in this case? We have seen that Arendt considers as barbaric and rejects any recourse to vengeance, ideas of a violated natural order, or the rights of violated collectivities (277). She has been arguing all along in favor of judgment and justice, and she rehearses that argument in the postscript that follows the epilogue. What is peculiar, however, is that she remarks that these long-forgotten or archaic notions of justice were not only responsible for bringing Eichmann to trial but for the death penalty as well. This causes some confusion, since if she is referring here to those reasons that are barbaric and unacceptable, then she rejects the reasons why Eichmann was brought to trial as well as those that justified the death penalty. But is she perhaps saying that there is a certain wisdom—a nascent norm—operating in that barbarism (in the same way that there may be latent principles—the same latent principles—in the final verdict of the Jerusalem judges that they themselves do not make manifest)?  The explicit verdict Arendt offers for why Eichmann has to be eliminated is that he sought to expunge certain so-called races (or, as Arendt at times puts it, "nations") from the face of the earth. There would seem to be a principle here, and it seems to stipulate that those who seek to eradicate the plurality of human life lose the right to life and that the death penalty is justified only in cases where genocide has been established. And yet even this principle is not directly elaborated. Instead, the voice concludes, without a middle premise, that this is the reason why no one can be expected to want to live with him. This seems to be a descriptive claim. It gives an account why no one really wants Eichmann alive, but it does not explain whether that "not wanting" is a sufficient condition for the justification of the death penalty.

We read in earlier pages that the extradition of Eichmann from Argentina was neither given a legal justification nor enacted through legal means (even that Eichmann himself was unacceptably "stateless" and lacked all rights of due process). In this regard, Arendt cites Karl Jaspers, who warned that those who follow the dictates of vengeance do not stop to reflect on what the right punishment should be, which authority should be entitled to decide the matter, and according to which code of law. Everything we read in Arendt seems to favor the idea of justice over vengeance; in other words, there has to be a justice that depends on judgment and, in this case, it would be a judgment that lives up to the demand to judge an unprecedented crime. This crime is not an ordinary murder but what she calls an "administrative massacre"—this is a new crime, one that depends less on being able to establish psychological intentions than on describing politically organized modes of uncritical obedience. In this sense, Eichmann himself is a new kind of person or an unprecedented sort of criminal, and so the mechanisms and terms of justice have to be rethought and remade in order to address this new situation. Interestingly enough, although Arendt disputes the idea that we might adequately recover psychological motives and intentions in such a case, she nevertheless attributes a certain kind of intention to both Eichmann and the judges: the convention of attributing to both "what they would have said" had they dared to make plain the norms operating in their conduct. Her efforts to reconstruct their true intentions presuppose that the normative attitudes and modes of reasoning at work for them can only be reconstructed ex post facto from a counterfactual position that relies indirectly on the text they produced rather than on any explicit disclosure of their known motives at the time (perhaps a form of esoteric reading). Had they been thinking and speaking well, had they been showing justice, they would have provided themselves the principles of their conduct, but since neither did, Arendt provides those principles for them, which  means that she is in the privileged position of displaying reason. As I have suggested, the point remains not to reconstruct the psychological person or the person's psychological motivations but the implicit normative scheme operative in a mode of conduct. And though Arendt appears to succeed in recasting "intention" as a less-than-conscious operation of moral reasoning, it is difficult to see how this opaque and disowned region of ratiocination does not itself rely on a certain psychological topography, a mechanism of disavowal, perhaps even an operation of the unconscious. Indeed, Arendt's procedure is to counter their failure of self-display by an aggressive therapeutic intervention (nearly Kleinian) whose aim is to excavate and exhibit the moral commitments implicit in their mute or mangled speech.

Although Arendt appears to know better than both Eichmann and the judges what they meant to have said and even should have said, she does not remain the omniscient philosophical archaeologist at every turn. Something happens in this direct address to Eichmann that unleashes a greater emotional identification with those Jerusalem judges than her searing criticism of them would seem to permit. Her voice becomes entangled with theirs, nearly knotted up in that particular plurality. After all, the verdict-voice is and is not her own: it is the voice that the judges would have used had they dared; so what she writes here is the courageous version of the verdict. As such, she seems to own it. But as a voicing that is attributed to the judges, it seems to mark a departure from her own voice, a ventriloquism at a distance that permits for the articulation of something otherwise disowned.

To show this in a relatively convincing way, I suggest we return briefly to the paragraph that leads up to this verdict in quotation marks. After saying what the judges should have said, she continues: "Then the justice of what was done in Jerusalem would have emerged to be seen by all if the judges had dared to address their defendant in something like the following terms" (374). It seems at first that she is accepting that verdict as just. Elsewhere she has dismissed its pageantry and pervasive vengeance. It could be that Arendt is simply remarking that we would have all seen that vengeance was operating in Jerusalem if only the judges had explicitly given the right voice to justice. So is it their version of justice or the version of justice that Arendt affirms?

There are at least two interpretations about what is happening here. According to the first interpretation, Arendt is saying what the judges should have said if the judges were to have judged in a truly just way. She may even be affirming that the judges came to the right decision (something she has explicitly noted) but that they did not arrive at it in the right way and did not justify it in the right way. It may also be that there  is an implicit rationale in the judgment that the judges made and that the hermeneutic task is left to her to make that reasoning explicit, to "show" the right justification.

The second interpretation is that Arendt is, yes, giving voice to what the judges would have said had they truly made available the true justification of their actions, and she is disagreeing with that justification. According to this reading, Arendt indicts the judges, disputing that what they call justice is actually justice. But what concerns her most is that this operation of vengeance could not be seen, could not be heard, and that a certain administrative noise covered over the operation of this archaic and barbaric form of sentencing Eichmann to death.

If we were to accept this second interpretation of this text, then we still have the problem of understanding who is in fact speaking at the end of the epilogue, and what the aim and effect of this voicing within the text might be: a voice emerges in the text in the mode of direct address, and it articulates the figure of the judge. In a text in which the burden of the word is to "show" the world what is happening, the figure works to produce an image through the voice of direct address.

Perhaps some version of each of these interpretations has to be accepted. A voice is postulated by Arendt that is not her own (and so partially dis-owned), but there are also identifiable features of her own voice, and that doubling is there for us to see. It is, as it were, rhetorically displayed. So where is Arendt in this voice? Is she perhaps distributed among its views? She voices what she believes, but there is also, bound up with this voice, another voicing of the view with which she disagrees. Is this perhaps a voice split into agonistic struggle with itself ? It is interesting that in the middle of this direct address, the voice of the judge repeats Arendt's own subjunctive ventriloquism: the postulated judge is conjectured to say to the conjectured Eichmann, "What you meant to say was that where all, or almost all, are guilty, nobody is." The judges refer to Sodom and Gomorrah, but they do so in the context of telling Eichmann that in that archaic biblical story, the cities were destroyed because all of the people were guilty. The judges finally reject this view of collective guilt when they claim that the "you" that is Eichmann is not interchangeable with all Nazis or all supporters of the German Reich. That rejection of collective guilt sure sounds a lot like Arendt herself. Indeed, the distinction between actual and potential guilt sounds like Arendt as well, as does the focus not on Eichmann's inner life or his motives but on his deeds alone.

There are reasons to doubt the second interpretation, namely, that she is voicing the very rationale of vengeance that she finds barbaric and unjust. It is  surely consistent with her view to claim that nothing more than misfortune made him into a criminal. Even though within the conjectured voice she explains why people "want" him dead, Arendt has made clear that wanting someone dead is not a good enough reason for sentencing someone to death. Elsewhere she offers a less emotive argument: genocide is unacceptable because it constitutes an attack on the plurality of humanity itself. Perhaps giving voice to what the more courageous judges would have said is actually giving voice to what a more emotional Hannah Arendt would have loved to say and even does say but within unattributed quotation marks that allow her to speak the death sentence without exactly meaning it—something that is made possible by the fictive conjecture in the text.

This strangely liberated voice—indirect speech couched in direct address—actually interrupts itself at one point, suggesting that both views emanate from this voiced figure of the plural judge. The language of wanting him dead seems to decide the penultimate sentence. In the final accusation the conjectured judges underscore Eichmann's not wanting to share the earth "with the Jewish people and the people of a number of other nations" and conclude that the members of the human race do not want to share the earth with him (279). But then a certain principle emerges within dashes, suggesting that the decision is based not on desire alone but a norm that ought to be invoked in order to decide cases of genocide: "as though you and your superiors had any right to determine who should and should not inhabit the world" (279).

It is noteworthy that such an important principle emerges as an aside, even qualified by the "as though," which holds back on a full attribution of the thought. And yet here as elsewhere, the counterfactual makes plain that a right is being implicitly articulated by a mode of conduct and a specific kind of policy, even if it is not explicitly codified as such. The unattributed "we" allows Arendt's own voice to cohabit with those of the Jerusalem judges in this voiced reconstruction of a decision with more courage and illustrative power. Even within the dashes, she enters into the same procedure as before, voicing what others would have said had they language and courage enough publicly to give principle to their action. At the moment in which this voice attributes to Nazi policy the right to choose with whom to inhabit the earth/ world, it also displays something that the judges probably did not have the language or courage to articulate and oppose but which Arendt clearly does.

The philosophical and political point of her voiced rejoinder to Eichmann (and to the judges) is that one must make clear that there is no right to choose with whom to cohabit the earth or world (Arendt equivocates between this Heideggerian distinction throughout, suggesting thereby that  there is no earth without its inhabitants).9 Cohabitation with others we never chose is, in effect, an abiding characteristic of the human condition. To exercise a right to decide with whom to cohabit on this earth is to invoke a genocidal prerogative; it is only for those who have implemented genocide that the death penalty is apparently justified. We do not receive in these pages a justification for why that penalty is appropriate rather than some other form of punishment, although we do know that the appropriateness of the death penalty was debated at the time (with Martin Buber and Gershom Scholem both opposing it).10 Perhaps we are being asked to remember that just as the crime of murder is not the same as the crime of genocide, so the death penalty, meted out by the state, is not the same as random murder performed by individuals. If such an analogy is operative, and if Arendt had fully displayed the principles of her reasoning, it may be that the implicit justification in the decision to sentence Eichmann to death seeks recourse to a moral typology of modes of death-dealing that would justify the death penalty (state-induced killing under certain legal conditions) and would reject any form of genocidal death dealing, whether state-sponsored or not. This justification is, however, not offered in this passage. In its place, there is a remarkable ellipsis in the reasoning. If such an argument is anywhere, it is implicit, since the voice that has charged itself with the task of making visible the version of justice that took place in Jerusalem seems to hold back at the very moment when a principle might be enunciated. Without understanding the difference between murder as a crime and genocide as a crime against humanity, we cannot understand why the sentencing of Eichmann to death is anything other than taking the life of someone who has taken a life. The state-sponsored death penalty is clearly one way of deciding with whom to cohabit the earth, and its effort to distinguish itself from murder or genocide seems to collapse when we realize that they are all ways of choosing with whom to cohabit the earth. In this way, Arendt's principle for justifying the death penalty seems to group together those who deliver the death sentence with those who commit the crimes.

This same problem appears within Arendt's final rhetorical language. How would such a principle of reciprocity distinguish itself from vengeance or an eye for an eye ("because you wanted, everyone now wants")? But just as the conjectured voice here does not consistently embrace the rationale of vengeance, neither can it fully extricate itself from vengeance to elaborate a distinctly alternative principle. Perhaps the lability of this voice, its very duality, consists in a coupling of angry and vengeful accusation with a more dispassionate elaboration of a norm that is required to decide matters of genocide; is this strange coupling what we are meant to hear and to see?  Does the voice produce a visual spectacle of Arendt seated on the bench with the other judges, and is the voice itself populated by all of those views? Does the voice lose track of its own ventriloquism and start to cohabit (despite itself, unconsciously) in ways that signal an uncertain authorial control or, perhaps, a dispersion of authorial effect? Or are we reading and watching Arendt find the rhetorical form—itself intensely theatrical—that allows for a certain emotional license, a final telling off, a conjectured death sentence, at the same time that it inserts the principle of its own action in a more temperate and embedded aside? How else do we understand this strange staging? This ending of the epilogue is a textual theater, the production of a hybrid figure through a textual voice whose speaker never quite announces itself.

Although Arendt opposed the trial as a kind of spectacle, it would seem that she allows herself to enter the theater of the trial in this striking epilogue, if only to make sure that her version of justice must not only be done but seen to be done: this seems to be the meaning of her powerless, theatrical, and graphic display of the death sentence. Through the rhetorical use of direct address, synaesthetic effect, and the equivocal doubling of a nameless voice, she produces the textual image and sound of the judge who should have been but was not. She absorbs those Jerusalem judges into her own voice in a display that not only corrects them but joins rank with them; she gives them the principle she thinks they need and gives herself a certain license to enter the angry fray, sentencing him to death again—an act apparently no less satisfying for being redundant.

Arendt presents herself as the one who apparently knows what the judges should have said; she speaks in her own voice, and yet, in speaking as a plural subject, a "we," she also seems to fade into the background as a singular author. Can we finally separate these two strands, or are they in some ways implicated in one another, suggesting that judgment is not simply an individual act but the operation of two voices at once that are not always working in the same direction. In other words, is Arendt's multivocality in this instance an implicit or explicit enactment of the voice of plurality itself?11 If so, what kind of plurality is this? Can we take our cues from her own use of the plural "we" in this final sentencing to understand the philosophical and political importance of this plural pronoun?

The "we" she invokes at once breaks with any "we" circumscribed by the laws of the nation-state, any "we" that belongs restrictively to the nation. And yet it does not exactly describe some other "we" except to conjecture its ideal parameters: such a "we" will be plural, that is, internally differentiated, and this internally differentiated population will serve as the basis of judgment but  also as the voice through which legitimate judgment takes place. Moreover, this aspirational invocation of plurality seems to engage judgment, practical judgment in the Kantian sense, not as a way of subordinating an example to an existing rule but as a spontaneous and even creative act. She asks us to consider human judgment not as bound by existing law, "not bound by standards and rules under which particular cases are subsumed, but on the contrary, [as that which] produces its own principles by virtue of the judging activity itself: only under this assumption can we risk ourselves on this very slippery moral ground with some hope of finding some firm footing" (27).

So this plurality that Arendt invokes is a voice (a textual mode of address) speaking to Eichmann, to the judges, but also displaying itself to everyone and anyone who can read and, through reading, "see" what is being shown. It is a voice that speaks as a "we" that is by definition divided up into many; it moves in sudden and fugitive shifts between an "I" and a "we." In some sense the "we" is the pronominal vehicle for hope: the less-than-ideal judge whose conjectured voice ends this text is precisely one she wishes were speaking the truth but whose fallibility, oddly, she preserves and reenacts. So though one might expect Arendt, armed with philosophical perspicacity, to triumph over the judges, a strange scene of cohabitation emerges. She takes on the voice of the judge, or she releases herself into such a voice; but no judge is there, only an operation of judgment. It is less the station of the judge than the operation of judgment that is at issue. And in this case, we see that the operation is a plural one, populated by discordant views, emotional and divisive. In a sense, the text does not deliver an ideal of a judge but exercises judgment as a plural undertaking. It does not precisely exemplify a set of ideals but operates in a mode that can be called "critical" precisely because it is dependent on no existing law to ground its legitimacy. Since positive law can be wrong, and often is, there has to be a basis for decision-making that is not dependent on an existing codification.

Although one might expect Arendt to turn to natural law as a way to ground the legitimacy of positive law, she turns instead to a prelegal understanding of responsibility or practical reason. She not only makes the case for the priority of moral philosophy to legal institutions but invests moral philosophy with a fictive, performative, spontaneous, and aspirational character that runs contrary to its usual modalities, as well as, I would add, a theatrical and not always consistent aspect. After all, Arendt's final direct address cannot be fully transcribed into an argument: it enacts a judgment in the name of a conjectured plurality. In this sense, it is practical and performative, grounded less in existing legal code than in the nonexistence of an ideal of justice—one that I think might better be described as a recognition  of equality that follows from her conception of human plurality. If Arendt's own voice functions as the crossing of the "I" and the "we," then it seems that the plurality enacted here, in the name of which she opposes genocide, is unchosen, compelled, agonistic, and inconsistent. It is not the ideal of a group of people acting in concert, freely, and guided by a common goal. And yet it might be said that to cohabit the earth with those one never chose and to develop an ethical and political obligation to preserve the lives of those one never chose is no easy task. It means that genocide must be transformed into an agonism, incorporated and expelled, one that is to a certain extent elaborated through imaginary and theatrical means; it suggests as well that the punishment invariably continues some part of the crime, insofar as Arendt does decide—with no performative efficacy and so theatrically—that Eichmann no longer deserves to cohabit the earth with the rest of us. Does she elaborate a fictive position of sovereignty in order to condemn him to death within the fiction of her own making? Or does her voice split and counter itself in a theatrical enactment of an agonistic plurality? No one dies as a consequence of Arendt's judgment and words, and yet perhaps they show us less the reason for the death penalty than its conflicted and theatrical vacillation between vengeance and some other version of justice.