City of Sunshine home so dear, Where the skies are ever clear, Where the purest waters flow, And the mountain breezes blow; With the grand old peak in view, And the scen ry ever new, Though from thee I far may roam, Thou art still my cherished home.

Chorus:

Oh! Why did I roam From my dear mountain home? The breeze seems to be Whispering to me, City of Sunshine, I speed thee a line, No longer I yearn, I gladly return, Gladly, gladly, I return.

At morning s early hour. While the dew s yet on the flower, And when evening shadows fall, Sweetest mem ries I recall; There are other places fair to see; But there are none so dear to me; And my heart it breathes a sigh, Fain, ah! Fain to thee I d fly. If Lincoln could return today, I wonder what he'd think and say About this great and glorious land O'er which he once had full command? With all the progress he would see I know he would astonished be I The lightning speed of which we boast A touch, a sound from coast to coast, The clearly distance-spoken words,? Ships sailing through the air like birds, Num'rous inventions small and great Too many to enumerate. With all these things so strange and new, I'm sure he'd scarce know what to do, And like a wanderer on the strand- A stranger in his own home land, Until he'd look around and see That same old Flag of Liberty. I wonder then if he'd recall The greatest deed he did for all? And that if he would sorry be That he had set the captive free? What set the million captives free? Oh yes, the world knows it was he. But 'twas a mightier hand you see Guided the pen, 'twas so to be, That all His legacy might share What you and I love best--free air; And too, his knowing eye could, see That to advance, all must be free. And Nature says and it is true To crush the one, we crush the two; And all who love their country true Love Lincoln's name, naught else to do. But Oh! could he return today- I wonder what he'd think and say? "Oh! say, does that star-spangled banner yet wave O'er the land of the free and the home of the brave? "And so will I go--and if 1 perish I perish,"--Eather 4:16

Ah! we love you, noble sister, And it's yours to dare and do; For we need you, and you need us, And we'll ever stand by you. Go and meet the foreign sisters, Represent your women true, Ah, to venture at this moment Is a noble thing to do. But "the hand that rocks the cradle Is the hand that rules the world;" By the sons that she hath given Doth the flag remain unfurled. Naught but victory awaits you Through the rough ways you may trod, But His sweet voice whispering says, "Be Still, and know that 1 am God." And we're hoping, praying, cheering, Though for you our hearts will yearn, May God speed you, may He bless you, We'll be waiting your return. Thy Place unfilled; Not when we need thy voice, thy pen, Forever stilled; Not when we fain would call thee back And smooth thy brow; Not when, alas! It is too late. Not then, but now.

Now, while thy people s cause you plead, Enlisting friends; Now, while wrong seems to yet prevail Thy work extends; Now, while the call throughout the land Is for the true; Now, at this crisis, noble one, We ve need of you.

Now, while you plead the world to take A broader view. Now when you say to men, Be men And dare to do ; Now, know it now! We know they worth, Our cheer allow; Now, ere too late we prize thee, friend, Not then, but Now Our colored women true Of California too Are in the Ranks; We'll sing it loud and clear He'll guide and he will cheer Us as we go.

Our boys and girls must stand As giants in the land With torches high Come rouse from the slugged sleep And help the vigil keep What tho' the clouds hang low There's blue beyond.

Behold the morning ray Turns darkness into day As we go on. We'll guard Old Glory too, To her we'll ever be true; We'll ever dare and do With God our Guide. But yester' came a song so bright From Tulsa's children of the night; A song of joy, love and cheer, Of happy hearts with naught to fear. Today a homeless hapless throng Sing to the world a sorrow song; Old Prejudice the snake, the fiend, The harvest watched then stealthily gleaned. Bereft of those they loved so well The suff'ring ones the story tell; But He who marks the sparrow's fall Is still the ruler over all. May she who kept her Holy Book Though on its pages could not look, Still trust in God to give her peace In Him alone she'll find surcease. 'Twas mother instinct in the child That to her doll clung, though the wild Flames leaped and flared with angry tongue And mothers to their children clung. Where could they look? Where could they go? They could not tell the friend from foe. Oh whom or what does rest the blame That puts our Christian land to shame? Is Cain a-stalking through the land, And leading on a mur'drous band? Our glorious flag do we forget? And our allegiance now regret? Tomorrow must our land be ruled By this young blood that's being schooled In prejudice and crime so bold? If so, what does the future hold? What right has Prejudice to kill, To torture, and our country fill With criminals, and precept to prate Before the youth to imitate The stoic heart may laugh and tell Of these portentious deeds we'd quell; But Oh! remember Belgium's fate, May we fore see before too late. Oh, Nation grand arouse, awake! A firmer stand for justice take; The laws of our dear land uphold and stop these heinous crimes so bold. A song is sung of wrong and might By Tulsa's children of the night; It is a sad a sorrow song In pleading voice--"Oh Lord, how long?" When the first slave-ship was landed with its cargo on this side, There was then no vexing question As to which race he's allied; Just a Negro, pure and simple, And as such might have remained, But--well, here we drop the subject, For there is nothing to be gained. Years have passed, and now we see him On him's turned the strongest light; Every race is represented—— Black, brown, yellow, red and white; And they call him now a problem, For there's One not been consulted And in it He is involved. There's rise and fall of Nations, But, dispute it if you can, There is just one God and Father And the brotherhood of man. Ten-tenths blood of pure Caucasian This it takes to make you white. But one drop of Negro blood is Just the same, as black as night For this stamp was put upon him And so let it thus remain, For what is the use contending All contentions are in vain.

It is said ten million Negroes On this firm free land doth stand. God inspires him to mount upward Though chains bind both foot and hand. Read his crimes in boldest letters, Negro and no question then; And we own him, our heads bowing, Grieved to know we have such men. On the other hand turning. We can point with pride to those Who thought it worth while in striving, And to fame and honor rose. Dumas, known as the French nov'list, He his Negro blood could trace; Tanner, artist known so widely, Who has won himself a place. Yes, and there is the "Black Napoleon," Brace "Toussaint L'Ouverture," And the great Edmonia Lewis, Sculptress, whose work will endure.

And we claim S. Coleridge Taylor; Dunbar, though he's dead still lives; Booker Washington we all know, For the race his best thoughts gives; Bishop Grant, in sermons, lectures; Dubois, Jhon H. Jackson, true; Chestnut, Vernon, trace 'em; Pushkin, Browning, many others, too. Great Rome had her gladiators, And of them was very proud; We care nothing for the prize-ring But,since it has been allowed, Why not then applaud the winner, Whether white or dusky man The survival of the fittest Is the rule and it will stand.

Call him Ishmaelite or Arab, Paraphrase him, if you will; Say Egyptian, if more pleasing, But he is a Negro still. This would be a grander Nation With the goodness that's innate. It would be a perfect haven—— But the prejudice——too great. But, there friends, Join us in life's great combat, Though your skin be dark, what matter! You're a man, e'en for all that; And we are using every effort To make good whare e'er we trod, One hand with the flag a waving, And the other stretched to God. In fancy we saw thee taking thy flight.

To that beautiful city so fair, Oh tell us on whom did thy mantle fall.

Or does it still hang in mid-air? Or did you keep the gift from above. To write of the beauties untold. And to help weave the songs that the angels sing As they play on their ha rps of gold?

We boast of the freedom thou so longed to see, And each generation sings praise: And while the vast number thy name celebrate

We, too, our voices shall raise. Oh long may our country do honor to men

Whose stand for the right will not sway, And now with the nation we breathe a prayer. "God bless thy natal day."
